1. Water Res. 2022 Oct 15;225:119128. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2022.119128. Epub 2022 
Sep 16.

Road salting and natural brine migration revealed as major sources of 
groundwater contamination across regions of northern Appalachia with and without 
unconventional oil and gas development.

Epuna F(1), Shaheen SW(2), Wen T(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Syracuse University, 
Syracuse, NY 13244, United States.
(2)Department of Geosciences, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, 
Pennsylvania 16802, United States.
(3)Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Syracuse University, 
Syracuse, NY 13244, United States. Electronic address: twen08@syr.edu.

High methane and salt levels in groundwater have been the most widely cited 
unconventional oil and gas development (UOGD) related water impairments. The 
attribution of these contaminants to UOGD is usually complex, especially in 
regions with mixed land uses. Here, we compiled a large hydrogeochemistry 
dataset containing 13 geochemical analytes for 17,794 groundwater samples from 
rural northern Appalachia, i.e., 19 counties located on the boundary between 
Pennsylvania (PA; UOGD is permitted) and New York (NY; UOGD is banned). With 
this dataset, we explored if statistical and geospatial tools can help shed 
light on the sources of inorganic solutes and methane in groundwater in regions 
with mixed land uses. The traditional Principal Component Analysis (PCA) 
indicates salts in NY and PA groundwater are mainly from the Appalachian Basin 
Brine (ABB). In contrast, the machine learning tool - Non-negative Matrix 
Factorization (NMF) highlights that road salts (in addition to ABB) account for 
36%-48% of total chloride in NY and PA groundwaters. The PCA fails to identify 
road salts as one water/salt source, likely due to its geochemical similarity 
with ABB. Neither PCA nor NMF detects a regional impact of UOGD on groundwater 
quality. Our geospatial analyses further corroborate (1) road salting is the 
major salt source in groundwater, and its impact is enhanced in proximity to 
highways; (2) UOGD-related groundwater quality deterioration is only limited to 
a few localities in PA.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.watres.2022.119128
PMID: 36162296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


2. Transplant Cell Ther. 2022 Apr;28(4):187.e1-187.e10. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtct.2022.01.017. Epub 2022 Jan 23.

Outcomes of Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation in T Cell 
Prolymphocytic Leukemia: A Contemporary Analysis from the Center for 
International Blood and Marrow Transplant Research.

Murthy HS(1), Ahn KW(2), Estrada-Merly N(3), Alkhateeb HB(4), Bal S(5), 
Kharfan-Dabaja MA(6), Dholaria B(7), Foss F(8), Gowda L(8), Jagadeesh D(9), 
Sauter C(10), Abid MB(11), Aljurf M(12), Awan FT(13), Bacher U(14), Badawy 
SM(15), Battiwalla M(16), Bredeson C(17), Cerny J(18), Chhabra S(3), Deol A(19), 
Diaz MA(20), Farhadfar N(21), Freytes C(22), Gajewski J(23), Gandhi MJ(24), 
Ganguly S(25), Grunwald MR(26), Halter J(27), Hashmi S(28), Hildebrandt GC(29), 
Inamoto Y(30), Jimenez-Jimenez AM(31), Kalaycio M(9), Kamble R(32), Krem MM(29), 
Lazarus HM(33), Lazaryan A(34), Maakaron J(35), Munshi PN(36), Munker R(29), 
Nazha A(9), Nishihori T(34), Oluwole OO(7), Ortí G(37), Pan DC(38), Patel 
SS(39), Pawarode A(40), Rizzieri D(41), Saba NS(42), Savani B(43), Seo S(44), 
Ustun C(45), van der Poel M(46), Verdonck LF(47), Wagner JL(48), Wirk B(49), 
Oran B(50), Nakamura R(51), Scott B(52), Saber W(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Blood and Marrow Transplantation Program, 
Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida. Electronic address: Murthy.Hemant@Mayo.edu.
(2)Center for International Blood and Marrow Transplant Research), Department of 
Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Division of 
Biostatistics, Institute for Health and Equity, Medical College of Wisconsin, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
(3)Center for International Blood and Marrow Transplant Research), Department of 
Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
(4)Division of hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, Minnesora.
(5)Division of Hematology-Oncology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, Alabama.
(6)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Blood and Marrow Transplantation Program, 
Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida.
(7)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville, Tennessee.
(8)Division of Hematology Oncology, Yale Cancer Center and Yale School of 
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut.
(9)Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Taussig Cancer Institue, 
Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio.
(10)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
New York; Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New 
York.
(11)Divisions of Hematology/Oncology and Infectious Diseases, Department of 
Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
(12)Department of Oncology, King Faisal Specialist Hospital & Research Center, 
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(13)Division of Hematology and Oncology, University of Texas Southwestern 
Medical Center, Dallas, Texas.
(14)Department of Hematology, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, University 
of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(15)Division of Hematology, Oncology and Stem Cell Transplant, Ann & Robert H. 
Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois; Department of 
Pediatrics, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, 
Illinois.
(16)Sarah Cannon Blood Cancer Network, Nashville, Tennessee.
(17)The Ottawa Hospital Transplant & Cellular Therapy Program, Ottawa, Ontario, 
Canada.
(18)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of 
Massachusetts Medical Center, Worcester, Massachusetts.
(19)Department of Oncology, Karmanos Cancer Institute, Wayne State University, 
Detroit, Michigan.
(20)Department of Hematology/Oncology, Hospital Infantil Universitario Niño 
Jesus, Madrid, Spain.
(21)Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of Florida College of Medicine, 
Gainesville, Florida.
(22)University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, 
Texas.
(23)Consultant, Lu Daopei Hospital, Beijing, China.
(24)Division of Transfusion Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.
(25)Division of Hematological Malignancy and Cellular Therapeutics, University 
of Kansas Health System, Kansas City, Kansas.
(26)Department of Hematologic Oncology and Blood Disorders, Levine Cancer 
Institute, Atrium Health, Charlotte, North Carolina.
(27)University Hospital of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(28)Department of Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota; 
Department of Medicine, Sheikh Shakhbout Medical City, Abu Dhabi, United Arab 
Emirates.
(29)Markey Cancer Center, University of Kentucky College of Medicine, Lexington, 
Kentucky.
(30)Division of Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation, National Cancer Center 
Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(31)Division of Transplantation and Cellular Therapy, University of Miami Miller 
School of Medicine, Miami, Florida.
(32)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Center for Cell and Gene Therapy, 
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.
(33)Department of Medicine, University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center, Case 
Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio.
(34)Department of Blood & Marrow Transplant and Cellular Immunotherapy, Moffitt 
Cancer Center, Tampa, Florida.
(35)Division of Hematology, Oncology, and Transplantation, Department of 
Medicine, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota.
(36)Stem Cell Transplant and Cellular Immunotherapy Program, MedStar Georgetown 
University Hospital, Washington, District of Columbia.
(37)Hematology Department, Vall d'Hebron University Hospital, Barcelona, Spain.
(38)Division of Hematology and Oncology, SUNY Upstate Medical University 
Hospital, Syracuse, New York.
(39)Blood and Marrow Transplant Program, Huntsman Cancer Institute, University 
of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah.
(40)Blood and Marrow Transplantation Program, Division of Hematology/Oncology, 
Department of Internal Medicine, The University of Michigan Medical School, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan.
(41)Division of Hematologic Malignancies and Cellular Therapy, Duke University, 
Durham, North Carolina.
(42)Section of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Deming Department of Medicine, 
Tulane University, New Orleans, Louisiana.
(43)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt 
University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee.
(44)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Dokkyo Medical University, Tochigi, 
Japan.
(45)Division of Hematology/Oncology/Cell Therapy, Rush University, Chicago, 
Illinois.
(46)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hematology, GROW School for 
Oncology and Developmental Biology, Maastricht University Medical Center, 
Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(47)Department of Hematology/Oncology, Isala Clinic, Zwolle, The Netherlands.
(48)Department of Medical Oncology, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania.
(49)Bone Marrow Transplant Program, Penn State Cancer Institute, Hershey, 
Pennsylvania.
(50)Department of Stem Cell Transplantation, Division of Cancer Medicine, The 
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(51)Department of Hematology & Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation, City of Hope 
National Medical Center, Duarte, California.
(52)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington.

T cell prolymphocytic leukemia (T-PLL) is a rare, aggressive malignancy with 
limited treatment options and poor long-term survival. Previous studies of 
allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (alloHCT) for T-PLL are limited by 
small numbers, and descriptions of patient and transplantation characteristics 
and outcomes after alloHCT are sparse. In this study, we evaluated outcomes of 
alloHCT in patients with T-PLL and attempted to identify predictors of 
post-transplantation relapse and survival. We conducted an analysis of data 
using the Center for International Blood and Marrow Transplant Research database 
on 266 patients with T-PLL who underwent alloHCT between 2008 and 2018. The 
4-year rates of overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS), relapse, and 
treatment-related mortality (TRM) were 30.0% (95% confidence interval [CI], 
23.8% to 36.5%), 25.7% (95% CI, 20% to 32%), 41.9% (95% CI, 35.5% to 48.4%), and 
32.4% (95% CI, 26.4% to 38.6%), respectively. In multivariable analyses, 3 
variables were associated with inferior OS: receipt of a myeloablative 
conditioning (MAC) regimen (hazard ratio [HR], 2.18; P < .0001), age >60 years 
(HR, 1.61; P = .0053), and suboptimal performance status, defined by Karnofsky 
Performance Status (KPS) <90 (HR, 1.53; P = .0073). Receipt of an MAC regimen 
also was associated with increased TRM (HR, 3.31; P < .0001), an elevated 
cumulative incidence of grade II-IV acute graft-versus-host disease (HR, 2.94; 
P = .0011), and inferior DFS (HR, 1.86; P = .0004). Conditioning intensity was 
not associated with relapse; however, stable disease/progression was correlated 
with increased risk of relapse (HR, 2.13; P = .0072). Both in vivo T cell 
depletion (TCD) as part of conditioning and KPS <90 were associated with worse 
TRM and inferior DFS. Receipt of total body irradiation had no significant 
effect on OS, DFS, or TRM. Our data show that reduced-intensity conditioning 
without in vivo TCD (ie, without antithymocyte globulin or alemtuzumab) before 
alloHCT was associated with long-term DFS in patients with T-PLL who were age 
≤60 years or who had a KPS >90 or chemosensitive disease.

Copyright © 2022 The American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtct.2022.01.017
PMCID: PMC8977261
PMID: 35081472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: Dr. Awan reports personal 
fees from Genentech, personal fees from Astrazeneca, personal fees from Abbvie, 
personal fees from Janssen, personal fees from Pharmacyclics, personal fees from 
Gilead sciences, personal fees from Kite pharma, personal fees from Celgene, 
personal fees from Karyopharm, personal fees from MEI Pharma, personal fees from 
Verastem, personal fees from Incyte, personal fees from Beigene, personal fees 
from Johnson and Johnson, personal fees from Dava Oncology, personal fees from 
BMS, personal fees from Merck, personal fees from Cardinal Health, personal fees 
from ADCT therapeutics, outside the submitted work. Dr. Dholaria reports and 
institutional research support from Takeda, Janssen, Angiocrine, Pfizer, 
Poseida. Dr. Deol reports personal fees from Kite/Gilead, personal fees from 
Jannsen/Johnson& Johnson, personal fees from Navartis, outside the submitted 
work. Dr. Grunwald reports personal fees from Abbvie, personal fees from Agios, 
personal fees from Amgen, personal fees from Cardinal Health, personal fees from 
BMS, personal fees from Daiichi Sankyo, personal fees and other from Incyte, 
personal fees from Merck, personal fees from Pfizer, personal fees from Premier, 
personal fees from Karius, other from Forma Therapeutics, other from 
Genentech/Roche, other from Janssen, personal fees from Astellas, personal fees 
from Trovagene, personal fees from Stemline, personal fees from Gilead, outside 
the submitted work. Dr. Inamoto reports personal fees from Novartis, personal 
fees from Janssen, from Meiji Seika Pharma, outside the submitted work. Dr. 
Munshi reports personal fees from Kite Pharma, personal fees from Incyte, 
outside the submitted work. Dr. Oluwole reports personal fees from Gilead, 
personal fees from Pfizer, personal fees from Spectrum, personal fees from 
Bayer, personal fees from Curio Science, outside the submitted work. Dr. 
Nishihori reports other from Novartis, other from Karyopharm, outside the 
submitted work. Dr. Ortí reports personal fees from Bristol Myers Squibb, 
personal fees from Novartis, personal fees and non-financial support from 
Incyte, personal fees and non-financial support from Pfizer, outside the 
submitted work. Dr. Seo reports personal fees from Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K., 
outside the submitted work. Dr. Patel reports personal fees from Kite Pharma, 
outside the submitted work. Dr. Rizzieri reports personal fees from Abbvie, 
personal fees from Agios, personal fees from AROG, personal fees from Bayer, 
personal fees from Celgene, personal fees and other from Celltrion/Teva, 
personal fees from Gilead, personal fees from Incyte, personal fees from Jazz, 
personal fees from Kadmon, personal fees from Kite, personal fees from 
Morphosys, personal fees from Mustang, personal fees from Novartis, personal 
fees from Pfizer, personal fees from Sanofi, personal fees from Seattle 
Genetics, personal fees and other from Stemline, personal fees from Amgen, 
personal fees from Acrobiotech, personal fees from UCART, personal fees from 
Chimerix, INC, personal fees from Pharmacyclics, outside the submitted work. Dr. 
Sauter reports grants from Juno Therapeutics, grants from Celgene, grants from 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, grants from Precision Biosciences, personal fees from 
Precision Biosciences, grants from Sanofi Genzyme, personal fees from Sanofi 
Genzyme, personal fees from Juno Therapeutics, personal fees from Spectrum 
Pharmaceuticals, personal fees from Novartis, personal fees from Genmab, 
personal fees from Kite, a Gilead Company, personal fees from Celgene, personal 
fees from Gamida Cell, personal fees from Karyopharm Therapeutics, personal fees 
from GlaxoSmithKline, outside the submitted work. Dr. Cerny reports personal 
fees from Jazz Pharmaceuticals Inc., personal fees from Daiichi-Sankyo Inc., 
personal fees from Pfizer Inc., personal fees from Amgen, personal fees from 
Allovir, outside the submitted work; and I own stocks of Actinium 
Pharmaceuticals, Bluebird Bio Inc., Dynavax Pharma, Atyr Pharmac, Gamida Cell, 
Miragen Therapeutics, Mustang Bio, Novavax, Ovid Therapeutics, Sorrento 
Therapeutics, TG Therapeutics, Vaxart Inc, and Veru Inc.. Dr. Hildebrandt 
reports other from Incyte, other from Jazz Pharmaceuticals, other from Incyte, 
other from Morphosys, other from Alexion Pharmaceuticals, other from Karyopharm 
Therapeutics, other from Takeda, other from Jazz Pharmaceuticals, other from 
Pharmacyclics, other from Incyte, other from AstraZeneca, other from Jazz 
Pharmaceuticals, other from Astellas Parma, other from Incyte, other from Falk 
Foundation, other from Takeda, outside the submitted work. Dr. Bal reports 
grants from Amyloidosis Foundation, outside the submitted work. Dr. Ustun 
reports other from Novartis, other from Blueprint, outside the submitted work. 
Dr. Foss reports in addition has a patent Photopheresis for modulation of 
dendritic cells issued.


3. Oncologist. 2022 Dec 9;27(12):e970-e972. doi: 10.1093/oncolo/oyac181.

Real-World Comprehensive Genomic Profiling Success Rates in Tissue and Liquid 
Prostate Carcinoma Specimens.

Hiemenz MC(1), Graf RP(1), Schiavone K(1), Harries L(1), Oxnard GR(1), Ross 
JS(1)(2), Huang RSP(1).

Author information:
(1)Foundation Medicine, Inc., Cambridge, MA, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA.

Challenges with sequencing tissue samples from patients with prostate cancer 
have been reported in clinical trials. To assess the success rate of 
comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) for prostate cancer patients, we analyzed 
a real-world cohort who underwent sequencing of their prostate tissue sample as 
well as a subset of patients with a reflex liquid biopsy. Overall, a significant 
majority (82%) of tissue prostate carcinoma samples yielded reportable CGP 
results. Of those samples that were unsuccessful, most (75%) were inadequate 
samples that did not meet pre-established criteria to advance into sequencing. 
For cases where liquid CGP was performed if tissue CGP was unsuccessful, 
mutations that were likely attributable to prostate carcinoma were observed in 
most cases and all cases were successful in generating a report. These results 
suggest that, for CGP testing, prostate cancer tissue is a reasonable matrix 
type and that liquid samples can be effectively used as an alternative to 
tissue.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/oncolo/oyac181
PMCID: PMC9732218
PMID: 36069892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. World Neurosurg. 2023 Oct;178:e315-e322. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2023.07.057. Epub 
2023 Jul 20.

Predictive Model Evaluating Risk of Hemorrhage in Intracranial Aneurysms: 
Analysis from Prospectively Collected HEAT Trial Database.

Abi-Aad KR(1), Rahme RJ(2), Syal A(3), De La Peña NM(4), Turcotte EL(4), Patra 
DP(5), Jones B(6), Chong B(7), Krishna C(8), Bendok BR(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, SUNY Upstate University, New York, New York, USA; 
Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona, USA; Department of 
Neurosurgery, Southern Illinois University, Springfield, Illinois, USA.
(2)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona, USA; Department of 
Neurosurgery, Southern Illinois University, Springfield, Illinois, USA; 
Department of Neurosurgery, Global Neurosciences Institute, Pennington, New 
Jersey, USA; Department of Neurosurgery, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(3)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona, USA; Department of 
Neurosurgery, New York Medical College, Valhalla, New York, USA; Neurosurgery 
Simulation and Innovation Lab, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona, USA; Department of 
Neurosurgery, Southern Illinois University, Springfield, Illinois, USA; Mayo 
Clinic Alix School of Medicine, Scottsdale, Arizona, USA.
(5)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona, USA; Department of 
Neurosurgery, Southern Illinois University, Springfield, Illinois, USA; 
Department of Neurosurgery, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(6)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona, USA; Department of 
Neurosurgery, Southern Illinois University, Springfield, Illinois, USA; 
Department of Neurosurgery, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona, USA; Department of 
Otolaryngology, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(7)Precision Neuro-Therapeutics Innovation Lab, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona, 
USA.
(8)Department of Neurosurgery, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(9)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona, USA; Department of 
Neurosurgery, Southern Illinois University, Springfield, Illinois, USA; 
Department of Neurosurgery, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona, USA; Neurosurgery 
Simulation and Innovation Lab, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona, USA; Precision 
Neuro-Therapeutics Innovation Lab, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona, USA. 
Electronic address: bendok.bernard@mayo.edu.

OBJECTIVE: We analyzed the data of patients enrolled in the Hydrogel 
Endovascular Aneurysm Treatment (HEAT) trial to develop and validate a model to 
predict the risk of aneurysmal hemorrhage.
METHODS: Analysis included data from 600 patients enrolled for the HEAT trial 
and included single saccular aneurysms of 3-14 mm size. Baseline characteristics 
were compared between patients with ruptured and unruptured aneurysms. 
Regression analysis was performed in the training set to identify significant 
risk factors and was validated in the validation dataset. The complete dataset 
was used to formulate a scoring model in which positive and negative predictors 
were assigned 1 and -1 points, respectively.
RESULTS: Data from 593 patients were analyzed in which 169 (28.5%) patients had 
ruptured aneurysms. The training (n = 297) and validation dataset (n = 296) had 
a comparable proportion of ruptured aneurysms (29.3% and 27.7%). Dome-to-neck 
ratio >2.5 (odds ratio [OR] 3.66), irregular shape (OR 3.79), daughter sac (OR 
5.89), and anterior and posterior communicating artery locations (OR 3.32 and 
3.56, respectively) had a higher rupture rate. Use of aspirin was associated 
with lower risk of hemorrhage (OR 0.16). The area under the curve from the 
receiver operating curve analysis was 0.88, 0.87, and 0.87 in the training, 
validation, and combined data set, respectively. The scoring model created a 
score of -1 to 2, yielding an of aneurysmal hemorrhage probability from 1.5% 
(score -1) to 70% (score 2).
CONCLUSIONS: This prospective study identifies dome-to-neck ratio >2.5, 
irregular shape, presence of daughter sac, absence of aspirin use, and aneurysm 
location at anterior communicating and posterior communicating artery as factors 
associated with increased risk of hemorrhagic presentation in small- to 
medium-sized intracranial aneurysms. Our model provides an estimate of rupture 
risk based on the presence or absence of these factors.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2023.07.057
PMID: 37479031


5. J Speech Lang Hear Res. 2023 Jun 20;66(6):1986-2009. doi: 
10.1044/2023_JSLHR-22-00343. Epub 2023 Jun 15.

Reproducible Speech Research With the Artificial Intelligence-Ready PERCEPT 
Corpora.

Benway NR(1), Preston JL(1)(2), Hitchcock E(3), Rose Y(4), Salekin A(5), Liang 
W(6), McAllister T(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Communication Sciences & Disorders, Syracuse University, NY.
(2)Haskins Laboratories, New Haven, CT.
(3)Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders, Montclair State 
University, NJ.
(4)Department of Linguistics, Memorial University, St. John's, Newfoundland and 
Labrador, Canada.
(5)Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Syracuse 
University, NY.
(6)Department of Communicative Sciences and Disorders, New York University, NY.

BACKGROUND: Publicly available speech corpora facilitate reproducible research 
by providing open-access data for participants who have consented/assented to 
data sharing among different research teams. Such corpora can also support 
clinical education, including perceptual training and training in the use of 
speech analysis tools.
PURPOSE: In this research note, we introduce the PERCEPT (Perceptual Error 
Rating for the Clinical Evaluation of Phonetic Targets) corpora, PERCEPT-R 
(Rhotics) and PERCEPT-GFTA (Goldman-Fristoe Test of Articulation), which 
together contain over 36 hr of speech audio (> 125,000 syllable, word, and 
phrase utterances) from children, adolescents, and young adults aged 6-24 years 
with speech sound disorder (primarily residual speech sound disorders impacting 
/ɹ/) and age-matched peers. We highlight PhonBank as the repository for the 
corpora and demonstrate use of the associated speech analysis software, Phon, to 
query PERCEPT-R. A worked example of research with PERCEPT-R, suitable for 
clinical education and research training, is included as an appendix. Support 
for end users and information/descriptive statistics for future releases of the 
PERCEPT corpora can be found in a dedicated Slack channel. Finally, we discuss 
the potential for PERCEPT corpora to support the training of artificial 
intelligence clinical speech technology appropriate for use with children with 
speech sound disorders, the development of which has historically been 
constrained by the limited representation of either children or individuals with 
speech impairments in publicly available training corpora.
CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate the use of PERCEPT corpora, PhonBank, and Phon for 
clinical training and research questions appropriate to child citation speech. 
Increased use of these tools has the potential to enhance reproducibility in the 
study of speech development and disorders.

DOI: 10.1044/2023_JSLHR-22-00343
PMID: 37319018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. J Pediatr. 2019 Jul;210:173-177. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2019.03.004. Epub 2019 Apr 
5.

Molecular Epidemiology of Invasive Staphylococcus aureus Infections and 
Concordance with Colonization Isolates.

Thomsen IP(1), Kadari P(2), Soper NR(2), Riddell S(3), Kiska D(3), Creech CB(2), 
Shaw J(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Infectious Diseases, Department of Pediatrics, and 
Vanderbilt Vaccine Research Program, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, 
Nashville, TN. Electronic address: isaac.thomsen@vumc.org.
(2)Division of Pediatric Infectious Diseases, Department of Pediatrics, and 
Vanderbilt Vaccine Research Program, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, 
Nashville, TN.
(3)Department of Pathology, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY.
(4)Division of Pediatric Infectious Diseases, Department of Pediatrics, SUNY 
Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY.

OBJECTIVES: To characterize Staphylococcus aureus isolates recovered from 
hospitalized children and to determine the concordance between colonizing and 
invasive isolates.
STUDY DESIGN: Children with culture-confirmed, community-onset, invasive S 
aureus infections were enrolled in this prospective case series from a large 
children's hospital over a 5-year period. Colonization isolates were obtained 
from the anterior nares, oropharynx, and inguinal folds and were compared with 
invasive isolates via repetitive-element, sequence-based polymerase chain 
reaction testing. Isolates with a ≥96% genetic match were characterized as 
concordant.
RESULTS: A total of 86 S aureus isolates (44 invasive, 42 colonization) were 
collected from 44 children with invasive infections. Clinical isolates were 
genetically diverse, 64% of invasive isolates were methicillin-susceptible S 
aureus (MSSA), and 59% of cases had a colonizing S aureus isolate at the time of 
hospitalization. Of those who were colonized, at least 1 of their colonization 
isolates was indistinguishable from the infecting isolate in 88% of cases. 
Patients with invasive MSSA were significantly more likely to have a concordant 
MSSA colonization isolate present compared with patients with invasive 
methicillin-resistant S aureus (MRSA) (61% vs 38%, P < .05).
CONCLUSIONS: Invasive MSSA infection was more common than MRSA infection in this 
pediatric cohort, and patients with MSSA infection were significantly more 
likely than those with MRSA infection to have concordant colonizing isolates 
across multiple anatomic sites. These findings warrant larger scale validation 
and may have important infection control and epidemiologic implications, as 
unlike MRSA, transmissibility of MSSA largely is ignored in healthcare settings.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2019.03.004
PMCID: PMC6592716
PMID: 30961989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Exp Clin Transplant. 2023 May;21(5):397-407. doi: 10.6002/ect.2023.0041.

Chylous Ascites After Robot-Assisted Laparoscopic Donor Nephrectomy: Is Early 
Surgical Intervention Necessary?

Zaman M(1), Ryncarz R, Chen A, Yildirim S, Iskhagi S, Saidi R, Bratslavsky G, 
Shahbazov R.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Surgery, Division of Transplantation, SUNY Upstate 
Medical University, Syracuse, New York; the Choate Rosemary Hall, Wallingford, 
Connecticut.

OBJECTIVES: Chylous ascites is a rare complication that may occur after living 
donor nephrectomy. The continuous loss of lymphatics, which carries a high risk 
of morbidity, may ensue in possible immunodeficiency and protein-calorie 
malnutrition. Here, we presented patients who developed chylous ascites after 
robotassisted living donor nephrectomy and reviewed the current literature of 
therapeutic strategies for chylous ascites.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We reviewed the medical records of 424 laparoscopic 
living donor nephrectomies performed at a single transplant center; among these, 
we studied the records of 3 patients who developed chylous ascites following 
robot-assisted living donor nephrectomy.
RESULTS: Among 438 living donor nephrectomies, 359 (81.9%) were laparoscopic and 
77 (18.1%) were by robotic assistance. In the 3 cases highlighted in our study, 
patient 1 did not respond to conservative therapy, which consisted of diet 
optimization, total parenteral nutrition, and octreotide (somatostatin). Patient 
1 subsequently underwent robotic-assisted laparoscopy with suture ligation and 
clipping of leaking lymphatic vessels, allowing the chylous ascites to subside. 
Patient 2 similarly did not respond to conservative treatment and developed 
ascites. Despite initial improvement after wound interrogation and drainage, 
patient 2 had continued symptoms, resulting in diagnostic laparoscopy and repair 
of leaky channels leading to the cisterna chyli. Patient 3 developed chylous 
ascites 4 weeks postoperatively and received ultrasonographic-guided 
paracentesis by interventional radiology, with results showing an aspirate 
consistent with chyle. The patient's diet was optimized, allowing for initial 
improvement and eventual return to normal diet.
CONCLUSIONS: Our case series and literature review demonstrate the importance of 
early surgical intervention after failed conservative management for resolution 
of chylous ascites in patients after robotassisted donor laparoscopic 
nephrectomy.

DOI: 10.6002/ect.2023.0041
PMID: 37334687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Neuroimage. 2020 Sep;218:116956. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.116956. Epub 
2020 May 26.

Increased power by harmonizing structural MRI site differences with the ComBat 
batch adjustment method in ENIGMA.

Radua J(1), Vieta E(2), Shinohara R(3), Kochunov P(4), Quidé Y(5), Green MJ(5), 
Weickert CS(6), Weickert T(5), Bruggemann J(7), Kircher T(8), Nenadić I(8), 
Cairns MJ(9), Seal M(10), Schall U(9), Henskens F(11), Fullerton JM(12), Mowry 
B(13), Pantelis C(14), Lenroot R(15), Cropley V(16), Loughland C(17), Scott 
R(17), Wolf D(18), Satterthwaite TD(18), Tan Y(19), Sim K(20), Piras F(21), 
Spalletta G(22), Banaj N(21), Pomarol-Clotet E(23), Solanes A(24), 
Albajes-Eizagirre A(25), Canales-Rodríguez EJ(26), Sarro S(27), Di Giorgio 
A(28), Bertolino A(29), Stäblein M(30), Oertel V(30), Knöchel C(30), Borgwardt 
S(31), du Plessis S(32), Yun JY(33), Kwon JS(34), Dannlowski U(35), Hahn T(35), 
Grotegerd D(35), Alloza C(36), Arango C(37), Janssen J(36), Díaz-Caneja C(37), 
Jiang W(38), Calhoun V(39), Ehrlich S(40), Yang K(41), Cascella NG(41), 
Takayanagi Y(42), Sawa A(43), Tomyshev A(44), Lebedeva I(44), Kaleda V(44), 
Kirschner M(45), Hoschl C(46), Tomecek D(47), Skoch A(48), van Amelsvoort T(49), 
Bakker G(49), James A(50), Preda A(51), Weideman A(51), Stein DJ(52), Howells 
F(53), Uhlmann A(54), Temmingh H(55), López-Jaramillo C(56), Díaz-Zuluaga A(57), 
Fortea L(58), Martinez-Heras E(59), Solana E(59), Llufriu S(59), Jahanshad 
N(60), Thompson P(61), Turner J(38), van Erp T(62); ENIGMA Consortium 
collaborators.

Collaborators: Glahn D(63), Pearlson G(64), Hong E(4), Krug A(65), Carr V(66), 
Tooney P(9), Cooper G(17), Rasser P(17), Michie P(17), Catts S(67), Gur R(18), 
Gur R(18), Yang F(19), Fan F(19), Chen J(19), Guo H(68), Tan S(19), Wang Z(19), 
Xiang H(69), Piras F(21), Assogna F(21), Salvador R(23), McKenna P(23), Bonvino 
A(29), King M(70), Kaiser S(71), Nguyen D(72), Pineda-Zapata J(73).

Author information:
(1)Imaging of Mood- and Anxiety-Related Disorders (IMARD) Group, Institut 
d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain; 
CIBERSAM, Madrid, Spain; Early Psychosis: Interventions and Clinical-detection 
(EPIC) Lab, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College 
London, London, UK; Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Stockholm Health Care 
Services, Stockholm County Council, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. 
Electronic address: radua@clinic.cat.
(2)CIBERSAM, Madrid, Spain; Bipolar and depressive disorders, Institut 
d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain; 
Barcelona Bipolar Disorders Program, Institute of Neurosciences, Hospital Clinic 
de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Penn Statistics in Imaging and Visualization Center, Department of 
Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Informatics, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA; Center for Biomedical Image Computing and Analytics, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(4)Maryland Psychiatric Research Center, University of Maryland School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(5)School of Psychiatry, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia; 
Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(6)School of Psychiatry, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia; 
Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, NSW, Australia; Department of 
Neuroscience & Physiology, Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, Newyork, NY, 
USA.
(7)School of Psychiatry, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia; 
Center for Biomedical Image Computing and Analytics, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(8)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Philipps-University Marburg, 
Marburg, Germany.
(9)University of Newcastle, Newcastle, NSW, Australia; Hunter Medical Research 
Institute, Newcastle, NSW, Australia.
(10)Murdoch Children's Research Institute, Melbourne, VIC, Australia; The 
University of Melbourne, Australia.
(11)Health Behaviour Research Group, School of Medicine and Public Health, 
University of Newcastle, Newcastle, NSW, Australia.
(12)School of Medical Sciences, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia; Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(13)Queensland Brain Institute, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 
Australia; Queensland Centre for Mental Health Research, The University of 
Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(14)Melbourne Neuropsychiatry Centre, Dept. of Psychiatry, University of 
Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia; North Western Mental Health, Melbourne 
Health, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(15)School of Psychiatry, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia; 
Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, NSW, Australia; University of New 
Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, USA.
(16)Melbourne Neuropsychiatry Centre, Dept. of Psychiatry, University of 
Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(17)University of Newcastle, Newcastle, NSW, Australia.
(18)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(19)Psychiatry Research Center, Beijing Huilongguan Hospital, Beijing, China.
(20)West Region and Research Division, Institute of Mental Health, Singapore, 
Singapore; Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore, Singapore; Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang Technological 
University, Singapore, Singapore.
(21)Laboratory of Neuropsychiatry, Department of Clinical and Behavioral 
Neurology, IRCCS Santa Lucia Foundation, Rome, Italy.
(22)Laboratory of Neuropsychiatry, Department of Clinical and Behavioral 
Neurology, IRCCS Santa Lucia Foundation, Rome, Italy; Division of 
Neuropsychiatry, Menninger Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, 
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA.
(23)CIBERSAM, Madrid, Spain; FIDMAG Germanes Hospitalàries Research Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(24)Imaging of Mood- and Anxiety-Related Disorders (IMARD) Group, Institut 
d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain; 
CIBERSAM, Madrid, Spain; FIDMAG Germanes Hospitalàries Research Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain; Department of Psychiatry and Forensic Medicine, School of 
Medicine, Autonomous University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(25)Imaging of Mood- and Anxiety-Related Disorders (IMARD) Group, Institut 
d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain; 
CIBERSAM, Madrid, Spain; FIDMAG Germanes Hospitalàries Research Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(26)CIBERSAM, Madrid, Spain; FIDMAG Germanes Hospitalàries Research Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain; Department of Radiology, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire 
Vaudois (CHUV), Lausanne, Switzerland; Signal Processing Lab (LTS5), École 
Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(27)CIBERSAM, Madrid, Spain; FIDMAG Germanes Hospitalàries Research Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain; School of Medicine, Universitat Internacional de Catalunya, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(28)IRCCS Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza, San Giovanni Rotondo, Italy; 
Department of Basic Medical Science, Neuroscience and Sense Organs, University 
of Bari 'Aldo Moro', Bari, Italy.
(29)Department of Basic Medical Science, Neuroscience and Sense Organs, 
University of Bari 'Aldo Moro', Bari, Italy.
(30)Dept. of Psychiatry, Psychosomatic Medicine and Psychotherapy, Goethe 
University Frankfurt, Frankfurt, Germany.
(31)Department of Psychiatry, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; 
Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Lübeck, Germany.
(32)University of Stellenbosch, Cape Town, Western Province, South Africa.
(33)Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Republic of Korea; Yeongeon 
Student Support Center, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(34)Department of Psychiatry, Seoul National University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea; Department of Brain & Cognitive Sciences, College of 
Natural Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(35)Department of Psychiatry, University of Münster, Münster, Germany.
(36)CIBERSAM, Madrid, Spain; Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 
Institute of Psychiatry and Mental Health, Hospital General Universitario 
Gregorio Marañón, Madrid, Spain; Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Gregorio 
Marañón (IiSGM), Madrid, Spain.
(37)CIBERSAM, Madrid, Spain; Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 
Institute of Psychiatry and Mental Health, Hospital General Universitario 
Gregorio Marañón, Madrid, Spain; Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Gregorio 
Marañón (IiSGM), Madrid, Spain; School of Medicine, Universidad Complutense, 
Madrid, Spain.
(38)Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(39)Tri-institutional Center for Translational Research in Neuroimaging and Data 
Science (TReNDS), Georgia State, Georgia Tech, Emory, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(40)Technische Universität Dresden, Faculty of Medicine, Division of 
Psychological and Social Medicine, Dresden, Germany.
(41)Departments of Psychiatry, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, 
USA.
(42)Department of Neuropsychiatry, University of Toyama Graduate School of 
Medicine and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Toyama, Japan; Department of Mental 
Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(43)Department of Mental Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, Baltimore, MD, USA; Departments of Psychiatry, Neuroscience, and 
Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(44)Mental Health Research Center, Moscow, Russia.
(45)Department of Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics, Psychiatric 
Hospital, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland; Montreal Neurological 
Institute, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
(46)National Institute of Mental Health, Klecany, Czech Republic; Department of 
Psychiatry and Clinical Psychology, Third Faculty of Medicine, Charles 
University, Prague, Czech Republic.
(47)National Institute of Mental Health, Klecany, Czech Republic; Institute of 
Computer Science, Czech Academy of Sciences, Prague, Czech Republic; Faculty of 
Electrical Engineering, Czech Technical University in Prague, Prague, Czech 
Republic.
(48)National Institute of Mental Health, Klecany, Czech Republic; MR Unit, 
Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, Institute for Clinical 
and Experimental Medicine, Prague, Czech Republic.
(49)Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology, Maastricht University, 
Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(50)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(51)Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, University of California 
Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA.
(52)SAMRC Unit on Risk & Resilience in Mental Disorders, Dept of Psychiatry and 
Neuroscience Institute, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, Western Province, 
South Africa.
(53)Department of Psychiatry and Mental Health, University of Cape Town, Cape 
Town, Western Cape, South Africa; Neuroscience Institute, University of Cape 
Town, Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa.
(54)Department of Psychiatry and Mental Health, University of Cape Town, Cape 
Town, Western Cape, South Africa; Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 
Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(55)Department of Psychiatry and Mental Health, University of Cape Town, Cape 
Town, Western Cape, South Africa; Valkenburg Hospital, Observatory, Cape Town, 
Western Cape, South Africa.
(56)Research Group in Psychiatry GIPSI, Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of 
Medicine, Universidad de Antioquia, Medellín, Antioquia, Colombia; Mood 
Disorders Program, Hospital Universitario San Vicente Fundación, Medellin, 
Colombia.
(57)Research Group in Psychiatry GIPSI, Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of 
Medicine, Universidad de Antioquia, Medellín, Antioquia, Colombia.
(58)Imaging of Mood- and Anxiety-Related Disorders (IMARD) Group, Institut 
d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain.
(59)University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Center of Neuroimmunology. 
Laboratory of Advanced Imaging in Neuroimmunological Diseases. Hospital Clinic 
de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi 
i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain.
(60)Imaging Genetics Center, Mark & Mary Stevens Neuroimaging & Informatics 
Institute, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.
(61)Imaging Genetics Center, Department of Neurology, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(62)Clinical Translational Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of Psychiatry and 
Human Behavior, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA; Center for the 
Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, University of California Irvine, 309 
Qureshey Research Lab, Irvine, CA, 92697, USA.
(63)Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA; Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
MA, USA; Olin Neuropsychiatry Research Center, Institute of Living, Hartford 
Hospital, Hartford, CT, USA.
(64)Olin Neuropsychiatry Research Center, Institute of Living, Hartford 
Hospital, Hartford, CT, USA; Depts. of Psychiatry and Neuroscience, Yale 
University, New Haven, CT, USA.
(65)Philipps-University Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(66)University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia; Monash University, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(67)University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(68)Zhumadian Psychiatry Hospital, Zhumadian, Henan province, China.
(69)Chongqing Three Gorges Central Hospital, Chongqing, China.
(70)University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, USA; Mind Research Network, 
Albuquerque, NM, USA.
(71)Geneva University Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland.
(72)Department of Pediatrics, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA.
(73)Research Group, Instituto de Alta Tecnología Médica (IATM), Medellín, 
Antioquia, Colombia.

A common limitation of neuroimaging studies is their small sample sizes. To 
overcome this hurdle, the Enhancing Neuro Imaging Genetics through Meta-Analysis 
(ENIGMA) Consortium combines neuroimaging data from many institutions worldwide. 
However, this introduces heterogeneity due to different scanning devices and 
sequences. ENIGMA projects commonly address this heterogeneity with 
random-effects meta-analysis or mixed-effects mega-analysis. Here we tested 
whether the batch adjustment method, ComBat, can further reduce site-related 
heterogeneity and thus increase statistical power. We conducted random-effects 
meta-analyses, mixed-effects mega-analyses and ComBat mega-analyses to compare 
cortical thickness, surface area and subcortical volumes between 2897 
individuals with a diagnosis of schizophrenia and 3141 healthy controls from 33 
sites. Specifically, we compared the imaging data between individuals with 
schizophrenia and healthy controls, covarying for age and sex. The use of ComBat 
substantially increased the statistical significance of the findings as compared 
to random-effects meta-analyses. The findings were more similar when comparing 
ComBat with mixed-effects mega-analysis, although ComBat still slightly 
increased the statistical significance. ComBat also showed increased statistical 
power when we repeated the analyses with fewer sites. Results were nearly 
identical when we applied the ComBat harmonization separately for cortical 
thickness, cortical surface area and subcortical volumes. Therefore, we 
recommend applying the ComBat function to attenuate potential effects of site in 
ENIGMA projects and other multi-site structural imaging work. We provide 
easy-to-use functions in R that work even if imaging data are partially missing 
in some brain regions, and they can be trained with one data set and then 
applied to another (a requirement for some analyses such as machine learning).

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.116956
PMCID: PMC7524039
PMID: 32470572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest AB has 
consulting fees from Biogen and lecture fees from Lundbeck, Otsuka and Janssen. 
AP has served as a consultant for Boehringer Ingelheim. AS: Advisory board 
(DSP), Research grants (CynK, DSP, MTPC, and Ono). CA has been a consultant to 
or has received honoraria or grants from Acadia, Angelini, Gedeon Richter, 
Janssen Cilag, Lundbeck, Otsuka, Roche, Sage, Servier, Shire, Schering Plough, 
Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma, Sunovion and Takeda. CH is faculty member, Lundbeck 
Psychiatric Institute. CP is on an advisory board for Lundbeck, Australia Pty 
Ltd and also received honoraria for talks presented at educational meetings 
organized by Lundbeck. CSW is on an advisory board for Lundbeck, Australia Pty 
Ltd and in collaboration with Astellas Pharma Inc., Japan. DJS has received 
research grants or consultancy honoraria from Lundbeck and Sun. EV has received 
grants and served as a consultant, advisor or CME speaker for the following 
entities (work unrelated to the topic of this manuscript): AB-Biotics, Abbott, 
Allergan, Angelini, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma, Galenica, Janssen, Lundbeck, 
Novartis, Otsuka, Sage, Sanofi-Aventis, and Takeda. IN has no conflicts of 
interest to declare. RTS has received consulting fees from Genentech and Roche. 
SL has received consulting fees and speaking honoraria from Roche, Novartis, 
Biogen and Merck.


9. Cureus. 2021 Apr 14;13(4):e14489. doi: 10.7759/cureus.14489.

An Unexpected Factor to Wellens Syndrome.

Mohmand B(1), Naqvi A(2), Pathmanathan A(3), Charlamb M(3).

Author information:
(1)Medicine, Upstate University Hospital, Syracuse, USA.
(2)Internal Medicine, Upstate University Hospital, Syracuse, USA.
(3)Cardiology, Upstate University Hospital, Syracuse, USA.

Factor V Leiden deficiency, the most common inherited thrombophilia, is a risk 
factor for venous thromboembolism in both the heterozygous and homozygous forms. 
An autosomal dominant genetic condition, the pattern of incomplete penetrance 
leads to variable manifestations of the disease. The association with arterial 
thromboembolism remains controversial, with studies indicating modest increases 
in risk of coronary artery disease, stroke. We present the case of a 53-year-old 
male with Wellens syndrome, with a history of heterozygous factor V Leiden 
deficiency and no other risk factors. Coronary angiography found a complete 
total occlusion of the proximal left anterior descending artery, with 
established collaterals, ultimately requiring coronary artery bypass graft. 
Laboratory testing effectively eliminated the presence of any alternative known 
risk factors for the advanced coronary artery disease. The literature evaluating 
a possible link between factor V Leiden deficiency and atherosclerosis remain 
conflicting. Our case highlights a concerning association and need for further 
studies.

Copyright © 2021, Mohmand et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.14489
PMCID: PMC8051553
PMID: 33880316

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


10. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2023 Mar 1;64(3):23. doi: 10.1167/iovs.64.3.23.

Phenotypic Variability of Retinal Disease Among a Cohort of Patients With 
Variants in the CLN Genes.

Kolesnikova M(1)(2), Lima de Carvalho JR Jr(3), Oh JK(4), Soucy M(5), Demirkol 
A(1)(6), Kim AH(1)(2), Tsang SH(1)(4)(5), Breazzano MP(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Jonas Children's Vision Care and Bernard & Shirlee Brown Glaucoma Laboratory, 
New York-Presbyterian Hospital, New York, New York, United States.
(2)College of Medicine at the State University of New York at Downstate Medical 
Center, Brooklyn, New York, United States.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Hospital das Clínicas de Pernambuco, Empresa 
Brasileira de Serviços Hospitalares, Federal University of Pernambuco, Recife, 
Pernambuco, Brazil.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Edward S. Harkness Eye Institute, Columbia 
University Medical Center, New York-Presbyterian Hospital, New York, New York, 
United States.
(5)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, New York, United States.
(6)Usküdar University Vocational School of Health Services, Department of 
Opticianry, Istanbul, Turkey.
(7)Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Johns Hopkins University School 
of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States.
(8)Retina-Vitreous Surgeons of Central New York, Liverpool, New York, United 
States.
(9)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences, State University of New York 
Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, New York, United States.

PURPOSE: To describe the phenotype of CLN-associated retinal dystrophy in a 
subset of patients at the Columbia University Medical Center, United States, and 
the Hospital das Clínicas de Pernambuco, Brazil, in comparison to the published 
literature.
METHODS: Eleven patients with confirmed biallelic variants in the CLN genes were 
evaluated via dilated fundus examination, clinical imaging, and full-field 
electroretinogram. A thorough literature search was conducted to determine 
previously published variants and associated phenotypes.
RESULTS: Genetic testing confirmed the presence of variants in CLN3, CLN7/MFSD8, 
CLN8, and GRN/CLN11. Five novel variants were identified, and four novel 
phenotypes of previously published alleles were described. The phenotype 
differed among patients with variants in the same gene and sometimes among 
patients with the same allele.
CONCLUSIONS: Substantial phenotypic variability among variants in the CLN genes 
makes identification of genotype-phenotype or allele-phenotype correlations 
challenging. Further study is required to establish an extensive database for 
adequate patient counseling.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.64.3.23
PMCID: PMC10019488
PMID: 36912596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: M. Kolesnikova, None; J.R. Lima de 
Carvalho Jr., None; J.K. Oh, None; M. Soucy, None; A. Demirkol, None; A.H. Kim, 
None; S.H. Tsang, Receives financial support from Abeona Therapeutics, Inc. and 
Emendo. He is also the founder of Rejuvitas and is on the scientific and 
clinical advisory board for Nanoscope Therapeutics and Medical Excellence 
Capital; M.P. Breazzano, None


11. J Child Neurol. 2022 Dec;37(12-14):984-991. doi: 10.1177/08830738221128773. Epub 
2022 Oct 3.

Role of Electroencephalogram (EEG) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) Findings 
in Early Recognition and Diagnosis of Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinosis Type 2 
Disease.

Ho ML(1), Wirrell EC(2), Petropoulou K(3), Sakonju A(3), Chu D(4), Seratti G(4), 
Palasis S(5).

Author information:
(1)Nationwide Children's Hospital, Columbus, OH, USA.
(2)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(3)12302SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(4)10926BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc, Novato, CA, USA.
(5)Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, Atlanta, GA, USA.

Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis type 2 (CLN2) disease is a very rare 
neurodegenerative lysosomal storage disorder. Progression is rapid and 
irreversible, making early diagnosis crucial for timely treatment. A group of 
pediatric neurologists and neuroradiologists with expertise in CLN2 convened to 
discuss early electroencephalogram (EEG) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
findings in CLN2 diagnosis. Of 18 CLN2 cases, 16 (88.9%) had background slowing 
and 16 (88.9%) had epileptiform discharges on initial EEG. Seven of 17 (41.2%) 
patients who received intermittent low-frequency photic stimulation had a 
photoparoxysmal response. Initial MRIs showed subtle cerebellar (n = 14, 77.8%) 
or cerebral (n = 9, 50.0%) atrophy, white matter abnormalities (n = 11, 61.1%), 
and basal ganglia T2 hypointensity (n = 6, 33.3%), which became more apparent on 
follow-up MRI. The recognition of even subtle cerebellar atrophy and white 
matter signal changes in children aged 2-5 years who present with language 
delay, new-onset seizures, and an EEG with epileptiform discharges and 
background slowing should prompt investigation for CLN2. Because these early 
signs are not unique to CLN2, genetic testing is essential early in the 
diagnostic journey.

DOI: 10.1177/08830738221128773
PMID: 36184928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis. 2023 Mar;32(3):106989. doi: 
10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2023.106989. Epub 2023 Jan 16.

Machine learning prediction of malignant middle cerebral artery infarction after 
mechanical thrombectomy for anterior circulation large vessel occlusion.

Hoffman H(1), Wood JS(2), Cote JR(2), Jalal MS(2), Masoud HE(3), Gould GC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, State University of New York Upstate Medical 
University, Syracuse, NY, USA. Electronic address: hoffmanh@upstate.edu.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, State University of New York Upstate Medical 
University, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, State University of New York Upstate Medical 
University, Syracuse, NY, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Prediction of malignant middle cerebral artery infarction (MMI) could 
identify patients for early intervention. We trained and internally validated a 
ML model that predicts MMI following mechanical thrombectomy (MT) for ACLVO.
METHODS: All patients who underwent MT for ACLVO between 2015 - 2021 at a single 
institution were reviewed. Data was divided into 80% training and 20% test sets. 
10 models were evaluated on the training set. The top 3 models underwent 
hyperparameter tuning using grid search with nested 5-fold CV to optimize the 
area under the receiver operating curve (AUROC). Tuned models were evaluated on 
the test set and compared to logistic regression.
RESULTS: A total of 381 patients met the inclusion criteria. There were 50 
(13.1%) patients who developed MMI. Out of the 10 ML models screened on the 
training set, the top 3 performing were neural network (median AUROC 0.78, IQR 
0.72 - 0.83), support vector machine ([SVM] median AUROC 0.77, IQR 0.72 - 0.83), 
and random forest (median AUROC 0.75, IQR 0.68 - 0.81). On the test set, random 
forest (median AUROC 0.78, IQR 0.73 - 0.83) and neural network (median AUROC 
0.78, IQR 0.73 - 0.83) were the top performing models, followed by SVM (median 
AUROC 0.77, IQR 0.70 - 0.83). These scores were significantly better than those 
for logistic regression (AUROC 0.72, IQR 0.66 - 0.78), individual risk factors, 
and the Malignant Brain Edema score (p < 0.001 for all).
CONCLUSION: ML models predicted MMI with good discriminative ability. They 
outperformed standard statistical techniques and individual risk factors.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2023.106989
PMID: 36652789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.


13. J Nerv Ment Dis. 2023 Jul 1;211(7):479-485. doi: 10.1097/NMD.0000000000001673.

Borderline Personality Organization as an Aid in Differential Diagnosis.

Jackson D(1), McLawhorn DE, Pal S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Norton College of Medicine, SUNY Upstate Medical 
University, Syracuse, New York.

There are subsets of patients whose presentations elude a precise diagnosis. All 
diagnoses are asymptotic to nature as they are constructs imposed on the world. 
Nonetheless, a greater degree of accuracy and precision is possible and 
beneficial for most patients. This is particularly true for patients with 
borderline personality organization (BPO) who present with psychotic symptoms. 
For the purposes of avoiding a misconstrual of the meaning of psychotic 
experiences in these patients, a brief synopsis of borderline personality 
organization, in contradistinction to borderline personality disorder, may prove 
to be of some clinical utility. The BPO construct presciently anticipates the 
trend toward a dimensional model of personality disorders and has the potential 
to enrich and inform these developments.

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/NMD.0000000000001673
PMID: 37382994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Pediatr Nephrol. 2023 Feb;38(2):439-449. doi: 10.1007/s00467-022-05634-x. Epub 
2022 Jun 20.

Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis and proteinuria associated with Myo1E 
mutations: novel variants and histological phenotype analysis.

Krendel M(1), Leh S(2)(3), Garone ME(1), Edwards-Richards A(4), Lin JJ(4), 
Brackman D(5), Knappskog P(6)(7), Mikhailov A(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, SUNY Upstate Medical 
University, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, Norway.
(3)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center, Winston-Salem, 
NC, USA.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, Norway.
(6)Department of Clinical Science, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(7)Department of Medical Genetics, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, 
Norway.
(8)Department of Pathology, Atrium Health Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center, 
Winston-Salem, NC, USA. avmikhai@wakehealth.edu.

BACKGROUND: Pathogenic mutations in the non-muscle single-headed myosin, myosin 
1E (Myo1e), are a rare cause of pediatric focal segmental glomerulosclerosis 
(FSGS). These mutations are biallelic, to date only reported as homozygous 
variants in consanguineous families. Myo1e regulates the actin cytoskeleton 
dynamics and cell adhesion, which are especially important for podocyte 
functions.
METHODS: DNA and RNA sequencing were used to identify novel MYO1E variants 
associated with FSGS. We studied the effects of these variants on the 
localization of Myo1e in kidney sections. We then analyzed the clinical and 
histological observations of all known pathogenic MYO1E variants.
RESULTS: We identified a patient compound heterozygote for two novel variants in 
MYO1E and a patient homozygous for a deletion of exon 19. Computer modeling 
predicted these variants to be disruptive. In both patients, Myo1e was 
mislocalized. As a rule, pathogenic MYO1E variants map to the Myo1e motor and 
neck domain and are most often associated with steroid-resistant nephrotic 
syndrome in children 1-11 years of age, leading to kidney failure in 4-10 years 
in a subset of patients. The ultrastructural features are the podocyte damage 
and striking diffuse and global Alport-like glomerular basement membrane (GBM) 
abnormalities.
CONCLUSIONS: We hypothesize that MYO1E mutations lead to disruption of the 
function of podocyte contractile actin cables resulting in abnormalities of the 
podocytes and the GBM and dysfunction of the glomerular filtration barrier. The 
characteristic clinicopathological data can help to tentatively differentiate 
this condition from other genetic podocytopathies and Alport syndrome until 
genetic testing is done. A higher resolution version of the Graphical abstract 
is available as Supplementary information.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International Pediatric 
Nephrology Association.

DOI: 10.1007/s00467-022-05634-x
PMCID: PMC10506584
PMID: 35723736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: All authors have nothing 
to disclose.


15. Am J Surg Pathol. 2018 Oct;42(10):1360-1369. doi: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000001098.

Clinicopathologic Features of a Series of Primary Renal CIC-rearranged Sarcomas 
With Comprehensive Molecular Analysis.

Mangray S(1), Kelly DR(2), LeGuellec S(3), Fridman E(4), Aggarwal S(5), Shago 
M(6), Matoso A(7), Madison R(8), Pramanik S(5), Zhong S(8), Li R(2), Lombardo 
KA(1), Cramer S(2), Pressey J(9), Ross JS(8)(10), Corona RJ(10), Bratslavsky 
G(10), Argani P(7), Coindre JM(11), Somers GR(6), Ali SM(8), Yakirevich E(1).

Author information:
(1)Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Rhode Island Hospital, Providence, 
RI.
(2)Children's of Alabama & University of Alabama Medical School, Birmingham, AL.
(3)Claudius Regaud Institute, IUCT-Oncopole, Toulouse.
(4)Sheba Medical Center, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(5)Santa Clara Valley Medical Center, San Jose, CA.
(6)The Hospital for Sick Children, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(7)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD.
(8)Foundation Medicine Inc., Cambridge, MA.
(9)Children's Hospital of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH.
(10)Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY.
(11)Bergonie Institute, Bordeaux, France.

CIC-rearranged sarcomas rarely occur in visceral organs including the kidney. 
The most common fusion partner with CIC is the DUX4 gene, but variant fusion 
partners have also been reported. Herein, we describe the clinicopathologic 
features and comprehensive molecular profiling of 4 cases of primary renal 
CIC-rearranged sarcomas. All cases occurred in females, age range 13 to 82 years 
and included 3 resections and 1 needle biopsy specimen. There was a tendency for 
development of metastatic disease predominantly to the lungs and poor disease 
outcome despite different treatment strategies. Histologically, variable round 
cell (20% to 100%), spindle cell (0% to 80%), and rhabdoid morphologies (0% to 
20%) were seen. By immunohistochemistry diffuse WT1 nuclear (2 to 3+, ∼90%) 
labeling was present in 1 case, with cytoplasmic staining in the others (3+, 40% 
to 75%). CD99 was focally positive in all 4 cases (≤10%); 1 case each was 
diffusely positive for c-myc (2 to 3+, ∼90%) and ETV4 (3+, ∼90%); 1 case was 
focally positive for c-myc (2+, ∼5%) and calretinin (2+, ∼5%); and all cases 
were negative for cytokeratin and NKX2.2. CIC rearrangement by fluorescence in 
situ hybridization was present in the 3 cases tested. Comprehensive genomic 
profiling (CGP) of 3 cases revealed a CIC-DUX4 fusion in 2 cases, and 1 
CIC-NUTM1 fusion. All 4 CIC-rearranged renal sarcomas had low mutation burden, 
and except HLA-A and MLL mutations lacked genomic alterations in other oncogenic 
drivers. Material from the needle biopsy was insufficient for CGP but that case 
was positive with the DUX4 immunohistochemical stain as were the 2 CIC-DUX4 
tumors. In conclusion, CIC-rearranged sarcomas rarely occur in the kidney with a 
tendency for poor outcome and in this series we illustrate an example with 
CIC-NUTM1 fusion, an emerging variant, at a visceral site. Testing by 
fluorescence in situ hybridization or CGP is optimal to avoid missing cases that 
harbor variant fusion partners.

DOI: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000001098
PMID: 29901569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. F1000Res. 2016 Oct 27;5:2588. doi: 10.12688/f1000research.9893.2. eCollection 
2016.

exprso: an R-package for the rapid implementation of machine learning 
algorithms.

Quinn T(1), Tylee D(2), Glatt S(2).

Author information:
(1)Bioinformatics Core Research Facility, Deakin University, Victoria, 
Australia.
(2)PsychGENe Lab, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, USA.

Machine learning plays a major role in many scientific investigations. However, 
non-expert programmers may struggle to implement the elaborate pipelines 
necessary to build highly accurate and generalizable models. We introduce 
exprso, a new R package that is an intuitive machine learning suite designed 
specifically for non-expert programmers. Built initially for the classification 
of high-dimensional data, exprso uses an object-oriented framework to 
encapsulate a number of common analytical methods into a series of 
interchangeable modules. This includes modules for feature selection, 
classification, high-throughput parameter grid-searching, elaborate 
cross-validation schemes (e.g., Monte Carlo and nested cross-validation), 
ensemble classification, and prediction. In addition, exprso also supports 
multi-class classification (through the 1-vs-all generalization of binary 
classifiers) and the prediction of continuous outcomes.

DOI: 10.12688/f1000research.9893.2
PMCID: PMC5832912
PMID: 29560250

Conflict of interest statement: No competing interests were disclosed.


17. Genome Biol Evol. 2019 Jul 1;11(7):1838-1846. doi: 10.1093/gbe/evz080.

Evolutionary Proteomics Reveals Distinct Patterns of Complexity and Divergence 
between Lepidopteran Sperm Morphs.

Whittington E(1), Karr TL(2), Mongue AJ(3), Dorus S(1), Walters JR(3).

Author information:
(1)Center for Reproductive Evolution, Department of Biology, Syracuse 
University.
(2)Center for Mechanisms of Evolution, The Biodesign Institute, Arizona State 
University.
(3)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Kansas.

Spermatozoa are one of the most strikingly diverse animal cell types. One poorly 
understood example of this diversity is sperm heteromorphism, where males 
produce multiple distinct morphs of sperm in a single ejaculate. Typically, only 
one morph is capable of fertilization and the function of the nonfertilizing 
morph, called parasperm, remains to be elucidated. Sperm heteromorphism has 
multiple independent origins, including Lepidoptera (moths and butterflies), 
where males produce a fertilizing eupyrene sperm and an apyrene parasperm, which 
lacks a nucleus and nuclear DNA. Here we report a comparative proteomic analysis 
of eupyrene and apyrene sperm between two distantly related lepidopteran 
species, the monarch butterfly (Danaus plexippus) and Carolina sphinx moth 
(Manduca sexta). In both species, we identified ∼700 sperm proteins, with half 
present in both morphs and the majority of the remainder observed only in 
eupyrene sperm. Apyrene sperm thus have a distinctly less complex proteome. Gene 
ontology (GO) analysis revealed proteins shared between morphs tend to be 
associated with canonical sperm cell structures (e.g., flagellum) and metabolism 
(e.g., ATP production). GO terms for morph-specific proteins broadly reflect 
known structural differences, but also suggest a role for apyrene sperm in 
modulating female neurobiology. Comparative analysis indicates that proteins 
shared between morphs are most conserved between species as components of sperm, 
whereas morph-specific proteins turn over more quickly, especially in apyrene 
sperm. The rapid divergence of apyrene sperm content is consistent with a 
relaxation of selective constraints associated with fertilization and karyogamy. 
On the other hand, parasperm generally exhibit greater evolutionary lability, 
and our observations may therefore reflect adaptive responses to shifting 
regimes of sexual selection.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution.

DOI: 10.1093/gbe/evz080
PMCID: PMC6607854
PMID: 31268533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Front Genet. 2022 Dec 6;13:1015885. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2022.1015885. eCollection 
2022.

Kalpra: A kernel approach for longitudinal pathway regression analysis 
integrating network information with an application to the longitudinal 
PsyCourse Study.

Wendel B(1), Heidenreich M(1), Budde M(2), Heilbronner M(2), Oraki Kohshour 
M(2), Papiol S(2)(3), Falkai P(3), Schulze TG(2)(4)(5), Heilbronner U(2), 
Bickeböller H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetic Epidemiology, University Medical Center Göttingen, 
Georg-August-University Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.
(2)Institute of Psychiatric Phenomics and Genomics (IPPG), University Hospital, 
LMU Munich, Munich, Germany.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Hospital, LMU Munich, 
Munich, Germany.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, SUNY Upstate Medical 
University, Syracuse, NY, United States.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States.

A popular approach to reduce the high dimensionality resulting from genome-wide 
association studies is to analyze a whole pathway in a single test for 
association with a phenotype. Kernel machine regression (KMR) is a highly 
flexible pathway analysis approach. Initially, KMR was developed to analyze a 
simple phenotype with just one measurement per individual. Recently, however, 
the investigation into the influence of genomic factors in the development of 
disease-related phenotypes across time (trajectories) has gained in importance. 
Thus, novel statistical approaches for KMR analyzing longitudinal data, i.e. 
several measurements at specific time points per individual are required. For 
longitudinal pathway analysis, we extend KMR to long-KMR using the estimation 
equivalence of KMR and linear mixed models. We include additional random effects 
to correct for the dependence structure. Moreover, within long-KMR we created a 
topology-based pathway analysis by combining this approach with a kernel 
including network information of the pathway. Most importantly, long-KMR not 
only allows for the investigation of the main genetic effect adjusting for time 
dependencies within an individual, but it also allows to test for the 
association of the pathway with the longitudinal course of the phenotype in the 
form of testing the genetic time-interaction effect. The approach is implemented 
as an R package, kalpra. Our simulation study demonstrates that the power of 
long-KMR exceeded that of another KMR method previously developed to analyze 
longitudinal data, while maintaining (slightly conservatively) the type I error. 
The network kernel improved the performance of long-KMR compared to the linear 
kernel. Considering different pathway densities, the power of the network kernel 
decreased with increasing pathway density. We applied long-KMR to cognitive data 
on executive function (Trail Making Test, part B) from the PsyCourse Study and 
17 candidate pathways selected from Reactome. We identified seven nominally 
significant pathways.

Copyright © 2022 Wendel, Heidenreich, Budde, Heilbronner, Oraki Kohshour, 
Papiol, Falkai, Schulze, Heilbronner and Bickeböller.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2022.1015885
PMCID: PMC9767414
PMID: 36561312

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


19. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2017 May-Jun;24(3):294-297. doi: 
10.1080/23279095.2016.1214132. Epub 2016 Aug 11.

CADASIL and multiple sclerosis: A case report of prolonged misdiagnosis.

Carone DA(1).

Author information:
(1)a Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Department, Institute for Human 
Performance , SUNY Upstate Medical University , Syracuse , New York , USA.

Erratum in
    Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2018 Sep-Oct;25(5):487.

CADASIL is Cerebral Autosomal-Dominant Arteriopathy with Subcortical Infarcts 
and Leukoencephalopathy [corrected]. (CADASIL) is sometimes misdiagnosed as 
multiple sclerosis (MS). MS and CADASIL are not known to co-occur and brain 
magnetic resonance imagining (MRI) findings can help with differential 
diagnosis. Despite the availability of this information, a case report is 
presented of a 61-year-old woman who was misdiagnosed with MS at age 50, tested 
positive for CADASIL at age 56, described incorrectly as having both conditions 
simultaneously, and continued on MS disease-modifying medications, resulting in 
financial and physical hardship. Neuropsychological consultation helped initiate 
removal of the MS diagnosis and treatment. Better understanding is needed among 
clinicians that MS and CADASIL are not known to co-exist, that no association 
has been found between MS and the NOTCH3 mutations that cause CADASIL, and that 
neuroimaging and clinical features can help distinguish between the two 
conditions in addition to genetic testing. This case study highlights how 
neuropsychological consultation involves more than testing, can help improve 
diagnostic decision making, and can improve outcomes by reducing costs to the 
patient and the healthcare system.

DOI: 10.1080/23279095.2016.1214132
PMID: 27712110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Pediatr Neurol. 2022 Feb;127:1-5. doi: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2021.11.003. Epub 
2021 Nov 12.

Lethal Pediatric Cerebral Vasculitis Triggered by Severe Acute Respiratory 
Syndrome Coronavirus 2.

Poisson KE(1), Zygmunt A(1), Leino D(2), Fuller CE(3), Jones BV(4), Haslam D(5), 
Staat MA(5), Clay G(6), Ting TV(6), Wesselkamper K(1), Hallinan B(1), Standridge 
S(1), Day ME(7), McNeal M(5), Stevenson CB(8), Vawter-Lee M(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
Cincinnati, Ohio; Division of Child Neurology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital 
Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
Cincinnati, Ohio; Division of Pathology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical 
Center, Cincinnati, Ohio.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
Cincinnati, Ohio; Division of Pathology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical 
Center, Cincinnati, Ohio; Department of Pathology, State University of New York, 
Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, New York.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
Cincinnati, Ohio; Division of Radiology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical 
Center, Cincinnati, Ohio.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
Cincinnati, Ohio; Division of Infectious Disease, Cincinnati Children's Hospital 
Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
Cincinnati, Ohio; Division of Rheumatology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital 
Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio.
(7)Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
Cincinnati, Ohio; Department of Pediatrics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital 
Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio.
(8)Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
Cincinnati, Ohio; Division of Neurosurgery, Cincinnati Children's Hospital 
Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio.
(9)Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
Cincinnati, Ohio; Division of Child Neurology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital 
Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio. Electronic address: Marissa.Vawter@cchmc.org.

BACKGROUND: We report the clinical, radiological, laboratory, and 
neuropathological findings in support of the first diagnosis of lethal, 
small-vessel cerebral vasculitis triggered by severe acute respiratory syndrome 
coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) in a pediatric patient.
PATIENT DESCRIPTION: A previously healthy, eight-year-old Hispanic girl 
presented with subacute left-sided weakness two weeks after a mild febrile 
illness. SARS-CoV-2 nasopharyngeal swab was positive. Magnetic resonance imaging 
revealed an enhancing right frontal lobe lesion with significant vasogenic 
edema. Two brain biopsies of the lesion showed perivascular and intraluminal 
lymphohistiocytic inflammatory infiltrate consistent with vasculitis. Despite 
extensive treatment with immunomodulatory therapies targeting primary angiitis 
of the central nervous system, she experienced neurological decline and died 
93 days after presentation. SARS-CoV-2 testing revealed positive serum IgG and 
positive cerebrospinal fluid IgM. Comprehensive infectious, rheumatologic, 
hematologic/oncologic, and genetic evaluation did not identify an alternative 
etiology. Postmortem brain autopsy remained consistent with vasculitis.
CONCLUSION: This is the first pediatric presentation to suggest that SARS-CoV-2 
can lead to a fatal, postinfectious, inflammatory small-vessel cerebral 
vasculitis. Our patient uniquely included supportive cerebrospinal fluid and 
postmortem tissue analysis. While most children recover from the neurological 
complications of SARS-CoV-2, we emphasize the potential mortality in a child 
with no risk factors for severe disease.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2021.11.003
PMCID: PMC8585961
PMID: 34864371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. JHEP Rep. 2021 Jan 27;3(2):100248. doi: 10.1016/j.jhepr.2021.100248. eCollection 
2021 Apr.

Real-world experience with obeticholic acid in patients with primary biliary 
cholangitis.

D'Amato D(1), De Vincentis A(2), Malinverno F(1), Viganò M(3), Alvaro D(4), 
Pompili M(5), Picciotto A(6), Palitti VP(7), Russello M(8), Storato S(9), 
Pigozzi MG(10), Calvaruso V(11), De Gasperi E(12), Lleo A(13), Castellaneta 
A(14), Pellicelli A(15), Cazzagon N(16), Floreani A(16), Muratori L(17), 
Fagiuoli S(18), Niro GA(19), Feletti V(20), Cozzolongo R(21), Terreni N(22), 
Marzioni M(23), Pellicano R(24), Pozzoni P(25), Baiocchi L(26), Chessa L(27), 
Rosina F(28), Bertino G(29), Vinci M(30), Morgando A(24), Vanni E(24), Scifo 
G(31), Sacco R(32), D'Antò M(33), Bellia V(34), Boldizzoni R(35), Casella S(36), 
Omazzi B(37), Poggi G(38), Cristoferi L(1), Gerussi A(1), Ronca V(1), Venere 
R(4), Ponziani F(5), Cannavò M(8), Mussetto A(20), Fontana R(19), Losito F(21), 
Frazzetto E(29), Distefano M(31), Colapietro F(13), Labanca S(6), Marconi G(23), 
Grassi G(26), Galati G(2), O'Donnell SE(1), Mancuso C(1), Mulinacci G(1), 
Palermo A(1), Claar E(39), Izzi A(40), Picardi A(2), Invernizzi P(1), Carbone 
M(1), Vespasiani-Gentilucci U(2); Italian PBC Registry and the Club Epatologi 
Ospedalieri (CLEO)/Associazione Italiana Gastroenterologi ed Endoscopisti 
Digestivi Ospedalieri (AIGO) PBC Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Centre for Autoimmune Liver Diseases, 
Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Milano-Bicocca, European 
Reference Network on Hepatological Diseases (ERN RARE-LIVER), San Gerardo 
Hospital, Monza, Italy.
(2)Internal Medicine and Hepatology, University Campus Bio-Medico of Rome, Rome, 
Italy.
(3)Hepatology Unit, San Giuseppe Hospital, Milan, Italy.
(4)Department of Translational and Precision Medicine, University La Sapienza, 
Rome, Italy.
(5)Internal Medicine and Hepatology Unit, Policlinico Gemelli, Sapienza 
University, Rome, Italy.
(6)Clinic of Gastroenterology, San Martino Hospital, Genoa, Italy.
(7)Hepatology Unit, Santo Spirito Hospital, Pescara, Italy.
(8)Liver Unit, Arnas Garibaldi, Catania, Italy.
(9)IRCCS Sacro Cuore Institute Don Calabria, Gastroenterology, Negrar, Italy.
(10)Gastroenterology Unit, Spedali Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy.
(11)Gastroenterology and Hepatology Unit, University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy.
(12)Foundation IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico - Division of 
Gastroenterology and Hepatology - CRC "A.M. and A. Migliavacca" Center for Liver 
Disease, Milan, Italy.
(13)Internal Medicine and Hepatology, Humanitas Clinical and Research Center 
IRCCS, Humanitas University, Milan, Italy.
(14)Gastroenterology Unit, Policlinico di Bari Hospital, Bari, Italy.
(15)Liver Unit, San Camillo Hospital, Rome, Italy.
(16)Gastroenterology Unit, Department of Surgery, Oncology and Gastroenterology, 
Padua University Hospital, Padua, Italy.
(17)DIMEC Università di Bologna, Policlinico di Sant'Orsola, Via Massarenti 9, 
40138, Bologna, Italy.
(18)Hepatology and Liver Transplant Unit, Papa Giovanni XXIII Hospital, Bergamo, 
Italy.
(19)Gastroenterology Unit, Fondazione Casa Sollievo Della Sofferenza IRCCS, San 
Giovanni Rotondo, Foggia, Italy.
(20)Gastroenterology Unit, Santa Maria Delle Croci Hospital, Ravenna, Italy.
(21)Gastroenterology Unit, National Institute of Gastroenterology "S de Bellis" 
Research Hospital, Castellana Grotte, Bari, Italy.
(22)Hepatology Unit, Valduce Hospital, Como, Italy.
(23)Clinic of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Università Politecnica delle 
Marche, Ancona, Italy.
(24)Gastroenterology Unit, Città della salute e della scienza, Turin, Italy.
(25)Hepatology Unit, Alessandro Manzoni Hospital, Lecco, Italy.
(26)Hepatology Unit, University of Rome "Tor Vergata", Rome, Italy.
(27)Liver Unit, University Hospital of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy.
(28)Medical Team Torino, Turin, Italy.
(29)Gastroenterology and Hepatology Unit, University Hospital Policlinico 
Vittorio Emanuele, Catania, Italy.
(30)Hepatology Unit, Niguarda Hospital, Milan, Italy.
(31)Department of Infectious Diseases, Umberto I Hospital, Syracuse, Italy.
(32)Gastroenterology Unit, Ospedali Riuniti, Foggia, Italy.
(33)Hepatology Unit, Santa Maria delle Grazie Hospital, Pozzuoli, Italy.
(34)Hepatology Unit, Valtellina e Alto Lario Hospital, Sondrio, Italy.
(35)Hepatology Unit, Treviglio Caravaggio Hospital, Treviglio, Italy.
(36)Hepatology Unit, Spedali Civili Gardone Val Trompia, Brescia, Italy.
(37)Gastroenterology Unit, Guido Salvini Hospital, Rho, Italy.
(38)Oncology Unit, Istituto di Cura Città di Pavia, Pavia, Italy.
(39)Hepatology Unit, Betania Hospital, Naples, Italy.
(40)Department of Infectious Diseases, D. Cotugno Hospital, Naples, Italy.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Obeticholic acid (OCA) is the second-line treatment approved 
for patients with primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) and an inadequate response 
or intolerance to ursodeoxycholic acid. We aimed to evaluate the effectiveness 
and safety of OCA under real-world conditions.
METHODS: Patients were recruited into the Italian PBC Registry, a multicentre, 
observational cohort study that monitors patients with PBC at national level. 
The primary endpoint was the biochemical response according to Poise criteria; 
the secondary endpoint was the biochemical response according to normal range 
criteria, defined as normal levels of bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and 
alanine aminotransferase (ALT) at 12 months. Safety and tolerability were also 
assessed.
RESULTS: We analysed 191 patients until at least 12 months of follow-up. Median 
age was 57 years, 94% female, 61 (32%) had cirrhosis, 28 (15%) had 
histologically proven overlap with autoimmune hepatitis (PBC-AIH). At 12 months, 
significant median reductions of ALP (-32.3%), ALT (-31.4%), and bilirubin 
(-11.2%) were observed. Response rates were 42.9% according to Poise criteria, 
and 11% by normal range criteria. Patients with cirrhosis had lower response 
than patients without cirrhosis (29.5% vs. 49.2%, p = 0.01), owing to a higher 
rate of OCA discontinuation (30% vs. 12%, p = 0.004), although with similar ALP 
reduction (29.4% vs. 34%, p = 0.53). Overlap PBC-AIH had a similar response to 
pure PBC (46.4% vs. 42.3%, p = 0.68), with higher ALT reduction at 6 months 
(-38% vs. -29%, p = 0.04). Thirty-three patients (17%) prematurely discontinued 
OCA because of adverse events, of whom 11 experienced serious adverse events. 
Treatment-induced pruritus was the leading cause of OCA discontinuation (67%).
CONCLUSIONS: Effectiveness and safety of OCA under real-world conditions mirror 
those in the Poise trial. Patients with cirrhosis had lower tolerability. 
Overlap PBC-AIH showed higher ALT reduction at 6 months compared with patients 
with pure PBC.
LAY SUMMARY: Obeticholic acid (OCA) was shown to be effective in more than 
one-third of patients not responding to ursodeoxycholic acid in a real-world 
context in Italy. Patients with cirrhosis had more side effects with OCA, and 
this led to suspension of the drug in one-third of patients. OCA was also 
effective in patients who had overlap between autoimmune hepatitis and primary 
biliary cholangitis.

© 2021 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhepr.2021.100248
PMCID: PMC7930359
PMID: 33681748

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare related to this work. Please refer to the accompanying ICMJE disclosure 
forms for further details.


22. Cancer Med. 2020 Nov;9(22):8468-8479. doi: 10.1002/cam4.3470. Epub 2020 Sep 24.

Efficacy of bendamustine and rituximab in unfit patients with previously 
untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Indirect comparison with ibrutinib in a 
real-world setting. A GIMEMA-ERIC and US study.

Cuneo A(1), Mato AR(2), Rigolin GM(1), Piciocchi A(3), Gentile M(4), Laurenti 
L(5), Allan JN(6), Pagel JM(7), Brander DM(8), Hill BT(9), Winter A(9), Lamanna 
N(10), Tam CS(11), Jacobs R(12), Lansigan F(13), Barr PM(14), Shadman M(15), 
Skarbnik AP(16), Pu JJ(17), Sehgal AR(18), Schuster SJ(19), Shah NN(20), Ujjani 
CS(15), Roeker L(2), Orlandi EM(21), Billio A(22), Trentin L(23), Spacek M(24), 
Marchetti M(25), Tedeschi A(26), Ilariucci F(27), Gaidano G(28), Doubek M(29), 
Farina L(30), Molica S(31), Di Raimondo F(32), Coscia M(33), Mauro FR(34), de la 
Serna J(35), Medina Perez A(36), Ferrarini I(37), Cimino G(38), Cavallari M(1), 
Cucci R(3), Vignetti M(3), Foà R(34), Ghia P(39); GIMEMA, European Research 
Initiative (ERIC) on CLL, US study group.

Author information:
(1)Hematology, Department of Medical Sciences, St. Anna University Hospital, 
Ferrara, Italy.
(2)Division of Hematological Oncology, CLL Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering 
Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Italian Group for Adult Hematologic Diseases (GIMEMA), Data Center and Health 
Outcomes Research Unit, Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Onco-Hematology, Hematology Unit, A.O. of Cosenza, Cosenza, 
Italy.
(5)Department of Radiological, Radiotherapeutic and Hematological Sciences, 
Fondazione Policlinico Universitario "A. Gemelli" IRCCS, Rome, Italy.
(6)Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(7)Center for Blood Disorders and Stem Cell Transplantation, Swedish Cancer 
Institute, Seattle, WA, USA.
(8)Division of Hematologic Malignancies and Cellular Therapy, Duke University, 
Durham, NC, USA.
(9)Taussig Cancer Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(10)Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(11)Peter McCallum Cancer Centre, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.
(12)Department of Hematologic Oncology and Blood Disorders, Levine Cancer 
Institute, Carolinas Healthcare System, Charlotte, NC, USA.
(13)Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH, USA.
(14)Wilmot Cancer Institute, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, 
NY, USA.
(15)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle Cancer Care Alliance, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(16)Lymphoproliferative Disorders Program, Novant Health Cancer Institute, 
Charlotte, NC, USA.
(17)SUNY Upstate Medical University, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, 
NY, USA.
(18)University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(19)Division of Hematology and Oncology, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(20)Division of Hematology & Oncology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, 
WI, USA.
(21)Hematology Unit, IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, Pavia, Italy.
(22)Hematology and Transplant Unit, San Maurizio Hospital, Azienda Sanitaria 
dell'Alto Adige, Bolzano, Italy.
(23)Hematology and Clinical Immunology, Department of Medicine, University of 
Padua, Padua, Italy.
(24)Department of Medicine, Department of Hematology, First Faculty of Medicine, 
Charles University and General University Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic.
(25)Oncology Unit, Cardinal Massaia Hospital, Asti, Italy.
(26)Hematology, Niguarda Cancer Center, ASST Grande Ospedale Metropolitano 
Niguarda, Milan, Italy.
(27)Hematology, Azienda USL-IRCCS, Reggio Emilia, Italy.
(28)Division of Hematology, Department of Translational Medicine, University of 
eastern Piedmont, Novara, Italy.
(29)Department of Internal Medicine - Hematology and Oncology, University 
Hospital Brno and Faculty of Medicine, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic.
(30)Hematology Department, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Milano, 
Italy.
(31)Hematology Unit, A. Pugliese Hospital, Azienda Ospedaliera Pugliese Ciaccio, 
Catanzaro, Italy.
(32)Catania Università di Catania, Cattedra di Ematologia, Catania, Italy.
(33)Division of Hematology, A.O.U. Città della Salute e della Scienza di Torino 
and Department of Molecular Biotechnology and Health Sciences, University of 
Torino, Torino, Italy.
(34)Hematology, Department of Translational and Precision Medicine, "Sapienza" 
University, Rome, Italy.
(35)Hematology Unit, Hospital Universitario, Madrid, Spain.
(36)Hospital Costa del Sol, Marbella, Spain.
(37)Hematology, Department of Cell Therapy and Hematology, University Hospital, 
Verona, Italy.
(38)Department of Translational and Precision Medicine, University "La 
Sapienza", UOC di Ematologia con Trapianto, Ospedale S. Maria Goretti, Latina, 
Italy.
(39)Strategic Research Program on CLL, Division of Experimental Oncology, IRCCS 
Ospedale San Raffaele, Università Vita-Salute San Raffaele, Milan, Italy.

Limited information is available on the efficacy of front-line bendamustine and 
rituximab (BR) in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with reduced renal function 
or coexisting conditions. We therefore analyzed a cohort of real-world patients 
and performed a matched adjusted indirect comparison with a cohort of patients 
treated with ibrutinib. One hundred and fifty-seven patients with creatinine 
clearance (CrCl) <70 mL/min and/or CIRS score >6 were treated with BR. The 
median age was 72 years; 69% of patients had ≥2 comorbidities and the median 
CrCl was 59.8 mL/min. 17.6% of patients carried TP53 disruption. The median 
progression-free survival (PFS) was 45 months; TP53 disruption was associated 
with a shorter PFS (P = 0.05). The overall survival (OS) at 12, 24, and 
36 months was 96.2%, 90.1%, and 79.5%, respectively. TP53 disruption was 
associated with an increased risk of death (P = 0.01). Data on 162 patients 
≥65 years treated with ibrutinib were analyzed and compared with 165 patients 
≥65 years treated with BR. Factors predicting for a longer PFS at multivariable 
analysis in the total patient population treated with BR and ibrutinib were age 
(HR 1.06, 95% CI 1.02-1.10, P < 0.01) and treatment with ibrutinib (HR 0.55, 95% 
CI 0.33-0.93, P = 0.03). In a post hoc analysis of patients in advanced stage, a 
significant PFS advantage was observed in patient who had received ibrutinib 
(P = 0.03), who showed a trend for OS advantage (P = 0.08). We arrived at the 
following conclusions: (a) BR is a relatively effective first-line regimen in a 
real-world population of unfit patients without TP53 disruption, (b) ibrutinib 
provided longer disease control than BR in patients with advanced disease stage.

© 2020 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.3470
PMCID: PMC7666748
PMID: 32969597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Antonio Cuneo: advisory board and lecturing for 
Janssen, Gilead, Abbvie, Roche. Anthony R. Mato: consultancy for TG Therapeutics 
(in addition DSMB), Abbvie, Pharamacyclics, Johnson & Johnson, Regeneron, Astra 
Zeneca, and Celgene and research funding from TG Therapeutics, Abbvie, 
Pharamacyclics, Johnson & Johnson, Regeneron, Portola, DTRM, and Acerta. Gian 
Matteo Rigolin: lecturing for Abbvie, Gilead and research funding from Gilead. 
Luca Laurenti advisory board and lecturing for Janssen, Gilead, Abbvie, Roche 
and Astra Zeneca. John N. Allan Advisory board/Consultant for Sunesis, PCYC, 
Abbvie, Genentech and research funding from Janssen, Genentech. John M. Pagel: 
Consultancy for Astrazeneca, Pharmacyclics, and Gilead. Constantine S. Tam 
honorarium and research funding from Janssen. Paul M. Barr: consultancy for from 
Abbvie/Pharmacyclics, Gilead, Janssen, TG therapeutics, AstraZeneca, Celgene, 
Morphosys, Seattle Genetics. Alan P. Skarbnik: consultancy for Abbvie, 
Pharmacyclics, Celgene, Kite, AstraZeneca, Genentech, Seattle Genetics; Speakers 
Bureau for Abbvie, Pharmacyclics, Celgene, Kite, Gilead Sciences, Jazz Pharma, 
Beigene, AstraZeneca, Genentech, Seattle Genetics, Verastem, Novartis; Stock 
Ownership in COTA Healthcare. Nirav N. Sha: honoraria, travel support, and 
research funding from Miltenyi Biotec, honoraria and travel support from Incyte, 
and Celgene; advisory boards for Kite, Celgene, and Cellectar; research support 
for clinical trials from BMS. Chaitra S. Ujjani: research support from 
Pharmacyclics, Astra Zeneca and Abbvie; consulting for Astra Zeneca and Abbvie. 
Lindsey Roeker: ASH grant funding for work outside of this manuscript, minority 
ownership interest in AbbVie and Abbott Laboratories. Gianluca Gaidano: Advisory 
Boards for Janssen, Abbvie, Astra‐Zeneca, Sunesis. Michael Doubek: Honoraria and 
Research grants from Roche, AbbVie, AOP Orphan, Janssen‐Cilag, Gilead and Amgen. 
Lucia Farina: advisory board for Janssen; lecturing for Abbvie. Marta Coscia: 
advisory board and lecturing from Janssen for Gilead, Abbvie, and esearch 
funding from Janssen and Karyopharm Therapeutics. Robin Foà34: Editorial boards 
and/or speaker's bureau for Janssen, AbbVie, Amgen, Novartis, Roche, Pfizer. 
Paolo Ghia: honoraria from AbbVie, Adaptive, ArQule, BeiGene, Celgene/Juno, 
Dyname, Gilead, Janssen, Sunesis and research funding from AbbVie, Gilead, 
Janssen, Novartis.


23. Mod Pathol. 2023 Oct;36(10):100241. doi: 10.1016/j.modpat.2023.100241. Epub 2023 
Jun 19.

Artificial Intelligence-Based PTEN Loss Assessment as an Early Predictor of 
Prostate Cancer Metastasis After Surgery: A Multicenter Retrospective Study.

Patel P(1), Harmon S(2), Iseman R(3), Ludkowski O(4), Auman H(5), Hawley S(5), 
Newcomb LF(6), Lin DW(6), Nelson PS(7), Feng Z(8), Boyer HD(8), Tretiakova 
MS(9), True LD(9), Vakar-Lopez F(9), Carroll PR(10), Cooperberg MR(10), Chan 
E(10), Simko J(11), Fazli L(12), Gleave M(12), Hurtado-Coll A(12), Thompson 
IM(13), Troyer D(14), McKenney JK(15), Wei W(15), Choyke PL(16), Bratslavsky 
G(17), Turkbey B(2), Siemens DR(18), Squire J(19), Peng YP(20), Brooks JD(21), 
Jamaspishvili T(22).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology at The Arthur and Sonia Labatt Brain Tumour 
Research Centre at the Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Molecular Imaging Branch, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland; 
Artificial Intelligence Resource, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland.
(3)Division of Cancer Biology and Genetics, Queen's University, Kingston, 
Ontario, Canada.
(4)University Health Network, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(5)Canary Foundation, Woodside, California.
(6)Department of Urology, University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, 
Washington.
(7)Division of Human Biology, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, 
Washington.
(8)Program of Biostatistics and Biomathematics, Division of Public Health 
Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington.
(9)Department of Pathology, University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, 
Washington.
(10)Department of Urology, University of California San Francisco and Helen 
Diller Family, Comprehensive Cancer Center, San Francisco, California.
(11)Department of Urology, University of California San Francisco and Helen 
Diller Family, Comprehensive Cancer Center, San Francisco, California; 
Department of Pathology, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, 
California.
(12)The Vancouver Prostate Centre, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada.
(13)CHRISTUS Medical Center Hospital, San Antonio, Texas.
(14)Department of Pathology, Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk, Virginia; 
Department of Microbiology and Molecular Cell Biology, Eastern Virginia Medical 
School, Norfolk, Virginia.
(15)Department of Pathology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio.
(16)Molecular Imaging Branch, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland.
(17)Department of Urology, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, New York.
(18)Department of Urology, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.
(19)Department of Genetics, Ribeirão Preto Medical School, University of São 
Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, Brazil.
(20)Department of Public Health Sciences, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, 
Canada; Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Queen's University, Kingston, 
Ontario, Canada.
(21)Department of Urology, Stanford University Medical Center, Stanford, 
California.
(22)Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine, Queen's University, 
Kingston, Ontario, Canada; Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine, SUNY 
Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, New York. Electronic address: 
jamaspit@upstate.edu.

Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) loss is associated with adverse outcomes 
in prostate cancer and can be measured via immunohistochemistry. The purpose of 
the study was to establish the clinical application of an in-house developed 
artificial intelligence (AI) image analysis workflow for automated detection of 
PTEN loss on digital images for identifying patients at risk of early recurrence 
and metastasis. Postsurgical tissue microarray sections from the Canary 
Foundation (n = 1264) stained with anti-PTEN antibody were evaluated 
independently by pathologist conventional visual scoring (cPTEN) and an 
automated AI-based image analysis pipeline (AI-PTEN). The relationship of PTEN 
evaluation methods with cancer recurrence and metastasis was analyzed using 
multivariable Cox proportional hazard and decision curve models. Both cPTEN 
scoring by the pathologist and quantification of PTEN loss by AI (high-risk 
AI-qPTEN) were significantly associated with shorter metastasis-free survival 
(MFS) in univariable analysis (cPTEN hazard ratio [HR], 1.54; CI, 1.07-2.21; P = 
.019; AI-qPTEN HR, 2.55; CI, 1.83-3.56; P < .001). In multivariable analyses, 
AI-qPTEN showed a statistically significant association with shorter MFS (HR, 
2.17; CI, 1.49-3.17; P < .001) and recurrence-free survival (HR, 1.36; CI, 
1.06-1.75; P = .016) when adjusting for relevant postsurgical clinical nomogram 
(Cancer of the Prostate Risk Assessment [CAPRA] postsurgical score [CAPRA-S]), 
whereas cPTEN does not show a statistically significant association (HR, 1.33; 
CI, 0.89-2; P = .2 and HR, 1.26; CI, 0.99-1.62; P = .063, respectively) when 
adjusting for CAPRA-S risk stratification. More importantly, AI-qPTEN was 
associated with shorter MFS in patients with favorable pathological stage and 
negative surgical margins (HR, 2.72; CI, 1.46-5.06; P = .002). Workflow also 
demonstrated enhanced clinical utility in decision curve analysis, more 
accurately identifying men who might benefit from adjuvant therapy postsurgery. 
This study demonstrates the clinical value of an affordable and fully automated 
AI-powered PTEN assessment for evaluating the risk of developing metastasis or 
disease recurrence after radical prostatectomy. Adding the AI-qPTEN assessment 
workflow to clinical variables may affect postoperative surveillance or 
management options, particularly in low-risk patients.

Copyright © 2023 United States & Canadian Academy of Pathology. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.modpat.2023.100241
PMCID: PMC10592257
PMID: 37343766

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST The authors declare no 
competing financial or non-financial Interests


24. Schizophr Res. 2016 Oct;176(2-3):114-124. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2016.07.006. 
Epub 2016 Jul 20.

Transcriptome-wide mega-analyses reveal joint dysregulation of immunologic genes 
and transcription regulators in brain and blood in schizophrenia.

Hess JL(1), Tylee DS(1), Barve R(1), de Jong S(2), Ophoff RA(3), Kumarasinghe 
N(4), Tooney P(5), Schall U(6), Gardiner E(7), Beveridge NJ(7), Scott RJ(8), 
Yasawardene S(9), Perera A(9), Mendis J(9), Carr V(10), Kelly B(11), Cairns 
M(5); Neurobehavioural Genetics Unit; Tsuang MT(12), Glatt SJ(13).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatric Genetic Epidemiology & Neurobiology Laboratory (PsychGENe Lab), 
Syracuse, NY, USA; Departments of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences & 
Neuroscience and Physiology, Syracuse, NY, USA; SUNY Upstate Medical University, 
Syracuse, NY, USA.
(2)Center for Neurobehavioral Genetics, Semel Institute for Neuroscience and 
Behavior, David Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California Los 
Angeles, Los Angeles, California, USA; MRC Social, Genetic & Developmental 
Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, King's 
College London, UK.
(3)Center for Neurobehavioral Genetics, Semel Institute for Neuroscience and 
Behavior, David Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California Los 
Angeles, Los Angeles, California, USA; Department of Psychiatry, Brain Center 
Rudolf Magnus, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(4)School of Medicine & Public Health, The University of Newcastle, Callaghan, 
Newcastle, Australia; Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medical Sciences, 
University of Sri Jayawardenepura, Nugegoda, Sri Lanka; Schizophrenia Research 
Institute, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia; Faculty of Medicine, Sir John 
Kotelawala Defence University, Ratmalana, Sri Lanka.
(5)Schizophrenia Research Institute, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia; School 
of Biomedical Sciences & Pharmacy, Faculty of Health, The University of 
Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia; Hunter Medical Research Institute, 
Newcastle, Australia; Centre for Translational Neuroscience & Mental Health, 
University of Newcastle, Callaghan, Newcastle, Australia.
(6)School of Medicine & Public Health, The University of Newcastle, Callaghan, 
Newcastle, Australia; Schizophrenia Research Institute, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia; Hunter Medical Research Institute, Newcastle, Australia; Centre for 
Translational Neuroscience & Mental Health, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, 
Newcastle, Australia.
(7)Schizophrenia Research Institute, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia; School 
of Biomedical Sciences & Pharmacy, Faculty of Health, The University of 
Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia; Centre for Translational Neuroscience & 
Mental Health, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, Newcastle, Australia.
(8)School of Biomedical Sciences & Pharmacy, Faculty of Health, The University 
of Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia; Hunter Medical Research Institute, 
Newcastle, Australia.
(9)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of Sri 
Jayawardenepura, Nugegoda, Sri Lanka.
(10)Schizophrenia Research Institute, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia; School 
of Psychiatry, University of New South Wales, Kensington, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(11)School of Medicine & Public Health, The University of Newcastle, Callaghan, 
Newcastle, Australia; Hunter Medical Research Institute, Newcastle, Australia; 
Centre for Translational Neuroscience & Mental Health, University of Newcastle, 
Callaghan, Newcastle, Australia.
(12)Center for Behavioral Genomics, Department of Psychiatry, Institute for 
Genomic Medicine, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA; 
Harvard Institute of Psychiatric Epidemiology and Genetics, Boston, USA.
(13)Psychiatric Genetic Epidemiology & Neurobiology Laboratory (PsychGENe Lab), 
Syracuse, NY, USA; Departments of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences & 
Neuroscience and Physiology, Syracuse, NY, USA; SUNY Upstate Medical University, 
Syracuse, NY, USA. Electronic address: stephen.glatt@psychgenelab.com.

The application of microarray technology in schizophrenia research was heralded 
as paradigm-shifting, as it allowed for high-throughput assessment of cell and 
tissue function. This technology was widely adopted, initially in studies of 
postmortem brain tissue, and later in studies of peripheral blood. The 
collective body of schizophrenia microarray literature contains apparent 
inconsistencies between studies, with failures to replicate top hits, in part 
due to small sample sizes, cohort-specific effects, differences in array types, 
and other confounders. In an attempt to summarize existing studies of 
schizophrenia cases and non-related comparison subjects, we performed two 
mega-analyses of a combined set of microarray data from postmortem prefrontal 
cortices (n=315) and from ex-vivo blood tissues (n=578). We adjusted regression 
models per gene to remove non-significant covariates, providing best-estimates 
of transcripts dysregulated in schizophrenia. We also examined dysregulation of 
functionally related gene sets and gene co-expression modules, and assessed 
enrichment of cell types and genetic risk factors. The identities of the most 
significantly dysregulated genes were largely distinct for each tissue, but the 
findings indicated common emergent biological functions (e.g. immunity) and 
regulatory factors (e.g., predicted targets of transcription factors and miRNA 
species across tissues). Our network-based analyses converged upon similar 
patterns of heightened innate immune gene expression in both brain and blood in 
schizophrenia. We also constructed generalizable machine-learning classifiers 
using the blood-based microarray data. Our study provides an informative atlas 
for future pathophysiologic and biomarker studies of schizophrenia.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2016.07.006
PMCID: PMC5026943
PMID: 27450777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare.


25. Data Brief. 2022 Nov 29;46:108793. doi: 10.1016/j.dib.2022.108793. eCollection 
2023 Feb.

Synthetic distracted driving (SynDD1) dataset for analyzing distracted behaviors 
and various gaze zones of a driver.

Rahman MS(1), Venkatachalapathy A(1), Sharma A(1), Wang J(2), Gursoy SV(2), 
Anastasiu D(3), Wang S(4).

Author information:
(1)Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa, USA.
(2)Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York, USA.
(3)Santa Clara University, California, USA.
(4)NVIDIA Corporation, California, USA.

This article presents a synthetic distracted driving (SynDD1) dataset for 
machine learning models to detect and analyze drivers' various distracted 
behavior and different gaze zones. We collected the data in a stationary vehicle 
using three in-vehicle cameras positioned at locations: on the dashboard, near 
the rearview mirror, and on the top right-side window corner. The dataset 
contains two activity types: distracted activities [1], [2], [3], and gaze zones 
[4], [5], [6] for each participant and each activity type has two sets: without 
appearance blocks and with appearance blocks, such as wearing a hat or 
sunglasses. The order and duration of each activity for each participant are 
random. In addition, the dataset contains manual annotations for each activity, 
having its start and end time annotated. Researchers could use this dataset to 
evaluate the performance of machine learning algorithms for the classification 
of various distracting activities and gaze zones of drivers.

© 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dib.2022.108793
PMCID: PMC9730022
PMID: 36506800

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


26. Ophthalmic Genet. 2023 Apr;44(2):186-190. doi: 10.1080/13816810.2022.2092758. 
Epub 2022 Jul 8.

Novel MFSD8 mutation causing non-syndromic asymmetric adult-onset macular 
dystrophy.

Priluck AZ(1), Breazzano MP(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Johns Hopkins University School 
of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Retina-Vitreous Surgeons of Central New York, Liverpool, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, State University of New York 
Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: MFSD8 mutations can cause type 7 neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis, a 
systemic disorder that includes vision loss; however, such mutations can also 
cause isolated retinal dystrophy with vision loss without systemic signs or 
symptoms as first identified in 2015. This report details a previously 
unreported combination of compound heterozygous variants in the MFSD8 gene 
causing a non-syndromic, bilateral central macular dystrophy presenting in 
adulthood.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We present a case of MFSD8-associated retinal dystrophy 
with multimodal imaging and a review of relevant literature.
RESULTS: A 57-year-old female presented for subacute, unilateral blurriness in 
her right eye. Best corrected visual acuity was 20/250 and 20/50 in the right 
and left eyes, respectively. Fundus examination and multimodal imaging revealed 
blunted foveal reflexes and optical gap with subfoveal ellipsoid zone loss in 
both eyes, right greater than left. Full field electroretinography results were 
within normal limits while the Arden ratio on electro-oculography was abnormal 
in both eyes, right more so than left. Genetic testing revealed apparently 
causative compound heterozygous mutations in the MFSD8 gene: c.154G>A, 
p.(Gly52Arg) and c.1006G>C, p.(Gluc336Gln). Visual acuity over one year of 
follow-up has remained stable.
CONCLUSIONS: To authors' knowledge, this report is first description of this 
combination of mutations in the MFSD8 gene leading to non-syndromic adult-onset 
macular dystrophy.

DOI: 10.1080/13816810.2022.2092758
PMID: 35801630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Psychiatry Res. 2021 Feb;296:113664. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2020.113664. Epub 
2021 Jan 5.

Early response to SPN-812 (viloxazine extended-release) can predict efficacy 
outcome in pediatric subjects with ADHD: a machine learning post-hoc analysis of 
four randomized clinical trials.

Faraone SV(1), Gomeni R(2), Hull JT(3), Busse GD(3), Melyan Z(3), O'Neal W(3), 
Rubin J(3), Nasser A(4).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Psychiatry and of Neuroscience and Physiology, SUNY Upstate 
Medical University, Syracuse, NY.
(2)PharmacoMetrica, Lieu-dit Longcol, La Fouillade, France.
(3)Supernus Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
(4)Supernus Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. Electronic address: anasser@supernus.com.

Machine learning (ML) was used to determine whether early response can predict 
efficacy outcome in pediatric subjects with ADHD treated with SPN-812. We used 
data from four Phase 3 placebo-controlled trials of 100- to 600-mg/day SPN-812 
(N=1397; 6-17 years of age). The treatment response was defined as having a ≥50% 
reduction in change from baseline (CFB) in ADHD Rating Scale-5 (ADHD-RS-5) Total 
score at Week 6. The variables used were: ADHD-RS-5 Total score, age, body 
weight, and body mass index at baseline; CFB ADHD-RS-5 Total score at Week 1, 
cumulative change in ADHD-RS-5 Total score at Week 2, and cumulative change in 
ADHD-RS-5 Total score at Week 3; Clinical Global Impressions-Improvement (CGI-I) 
score at Week 1, 2, and 3; and target dose. Using the best selected model, lasso 
regression, to generate importance scores, we found that change in ADHD-RS-5 
Total score and CGI-I score were the best predictors of efficacy outcome. Change 
in ADHD-RS-5 Total score at Week 2 could predict treatment response at Week 6 
(75% positive predictive power, 75% sensitivity, 74% specificity). Therefore, 
early response after two weeks of treatment with once-daily SPN-812 in pediatric 
patients with ADHD can predict efficacy outcome at Week 6.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2020.113664
PMID: 33418457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Sci Rep. 2019 Aug 22;9(1):12269. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-48555-w.

Systemically Administered Plant Recombinant Holo-Intrinsic Factor Targets the 
Liver and is not Affected by Endogenous B12 levels.

Workinger JL(1), Kuda-Wedagedara ANW(2), Julin MM(1), White JM(2), Nexo E(3), 
Viola NT(4), Doyle RP(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, 111 College Place Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY, 
13244, USA.
(2)Department of Oncology, Karmanos Cancer Institute, Wayne State University, 
Detroit, MI, 48201, USA.
(3)Department of Clinical Biochemistry and Clinical Medicine, University of 
Aarhus, Aarhus, Denmark.
(4)Department of Oncology, Karmanos Cancer Institute, Wayne State University, 
Detroit, MI, 48201, USA. violan@karmanos.org.
(5)Department of Chemistry, 111 College Place Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY, 
13244, USA. rpdoyle@syr.edu.
(6)Department of Medicine, State University of New York (SUNY) Upstate Medical 
University, Syracuse, NY, 13210, USA. rpdoyle@syr.edu.

Precision targeting imaging agents and/or treatment agents to select cells or 
organs in the body remains a significant need and is an area of intense 
research. It has been hypothesized that the vitamin B12 (B12) dietary pathway, 
or components thereof, may be exploitable in this area. The question of whether 
gastric Intrinsic factor (IF), critical for B12 absorption in the GI tract via 
the cubilin receptor, could be used as a targeting moiety for the cubilin 
receptor systemically, has not been investigated. Cubilin is the only known 
receptor for holo-IF and is found primarily in the kidney and ear (outside of 
the ileum of the GI) offering significant scope for specific targeting. We 
utilized plant derived human gastric IF in fluorescent cell and PET based in 
vivo imaging and biodistribution studies and demonstrated that plant derived IF 
primarily targets the liver, likely a consequence of the unique glycosylation 
profile of the IF, and is not affected by endogenous B12 levels.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-48555-w
PMCID: PMC6706418
PMID: 31439908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


29. J Diabetes Sci Technol. 2023 Jan 11:19322968221149040. doi: 
10.1177/19322968221149040. Online ahead of print.

Estimation of a Machine Learning-Based Decision Rule to Reduce Hypoglycemia 
Among Older Adults With Type 1 Diabetes: A Post Hoc Analysis of Continuous 
Glucose Monitoring in the WISDM Study.

Kahkoska AR(1)(2), Shah KS(3), Kosorok MR(3), Miller KM(4), Rickels M(5), 
Weinstock RS(6), Young LA(7), Pratley RE(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(2)UNC Center for Aging and Health, The University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(4)Jaeb Center for Health Research, Tampa, FL, USA.
(5)Rodebaugh Diabetes Center, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of 
Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(6)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism, SUNY Upstate Medical 
University, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(7)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, The University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(8)AdventHealth Translational Research Institute, Orlando, FL, USA.

BACKGROUND: The Wireless Innovation for Seniors with Diabetes Mellitus (WISDM) 
study demonstrated continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) reduced hypoglycemia over 
6 months among older adults with type 1 diabetes (T1D) compared with blood 
glucose monitoring (BGM). We explored heterogeneous treatment effects of CGM on 
hypoglycemia by formulating a data-driven decision rule that selects an 
intervention (ie, CGM vs BGM) to minimize percentage of time <70 mg/dL for each 
individual WISDM participant.
METHOD: The precision medicine analyses used data from participants with 
complete data (n = 194 older adults, including those who received CGM [n = 100] 
and BGM [n = 94] in the trial). Policy tree and decision list algorithms were 
fit with 14 baseline demographic, clinical, and laboratory measures. The primary 
outcome was CGM-measured percentage of time spent in hypoglycemic range (<70 
mg/dL), and the decision rule assigned participants to a subgroup reflecting the 
treatment estimated to minimize this outcome across all follow-up visits.
RESULTS: The optimal decision rule was found to be a decision list with 3 steps. 
The first step moved WISDM participants with baseline time-below range >1.35% 
and no detectable C-peptide levels to the CGM subgroup (n = 139), and the second 
step moved WISDM participants with a baseline time-below range of >6.45% to the 
CGM subgroup (n = 18). The remaining participants (n = 37) were left in the BGM 
subgroup. Compared with the BGM subgroup (n = 37; 19%), the group for whom CGM 
minimized hypoglycemia (n = 157; 81%) had more baseline hypoglycemia, a lower 
proportion of detectable C-peptide, higher glycemic variability, longer disease 
duration, and higher proportion of insulin pump use.
CONCLUSIONS: The decision rule underscores the benefits of CGM for older adults 
to reduce hypoglycemia. Diagnostic CGM and laboratory markers may inform 
decision-making surrounding therapeutic CGM and identify older adults for whom 
CGM may be a critical intervention to reduce hypoglycemia.

DOI: 10.1177/19322968221149040
PMID: 36629330

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe 
author(s) declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to 
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: RSW participated 
in multicenter clinical trials through her institution, sponsored by Insulet, 
Medtronic, Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Boehringer Ingelheim, and has used 
donated DexCom CGMs in projects sponsored by NIH and the Leona M. and Harry B. 
Helmsley Charitable Trust. KMM has used donated DexCom CGMs in projects 
sponsored by NIH and the Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley Charitable Trust. REP 
reports consulting fees from Bayer AG, Corcept Therapeutics Incorporated, 
DexCom, Hanmi Pharmaceutical Co., Merck, Novo Nordisk, Pfizer, Sanofi, Scohia 
Pharma Inc., and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries, and grants/research support from 
Hanmi Pharmaceutical Co., Janssen, Metavention, Novo Nordisk, Poxel SA, and 
Sanofi. All funds are paid directly to Dr Pratley’s employer, AdventHealth, a 
nonprofit organization that supports education and research.


30. BMC Pediatr. 2016 Apr 22;16:52. doi: 10.1186/s12887-016-0586-x.

Salivary miRNA profiles identify children with autism spectrum disorder, 
correlate with adaptive behavior, and implicate ASD candidate genes involved in 
neurodevelopment.

Hicks SD(1), Ignacio C(2), Gentile K(3), Middleton FA(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Milton S. Hershey Medical Center of Penn State 
University, Hershey, PA, USA.
(2)Partek Incorporated, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(3)Department of Neuroscience & Physiology, State University of New York, 
Upstate Medical University, 750 East Adams Street, Syracuse, NY, 13210, USA.
(4)Department of Neuroscience & Physiology, State University of New York, 
Upstate Medical University, 750 East Adams Street, Syracuse, NY, 13210, USA. 
middletf@upstate.edu.
(5)Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, State University of New York, 
Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA. middletf@upstate.edu.
(6)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, State University of New York, 
Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA. middletf@upstate.edu.

BACKGROUND: Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a common neurodevelopmental 
disorder that lacks adequate screening tools, often delaying diagnosis and 
therapeutic interventions. Despite a substantial genetic component, no single 
gene variant accounts for >1 % of ASD incidence. Epigenetic mechanisms that 
include microRNAs (miRNAs) may contribute to the ASD phenotype by altering 
networks of neurodevelopmental genes. The extracellular availability of miRNAs 
allows for painless, noninvasive collection from biofluids. In this study, we 
investigated the potential for saliva-based miRNAs to serve as diagnostic 
screening tools and evaluated their potential functional importance.
METHODS: Salivary miRNA was purified from 24 ASD subjects and 21 age- and 
gender-matched control subjects. The ASD group included individuals with mild 
ASD (DSM-5 criteria and Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule) and no history 
of neurologic disorder, pre-term birth, or known chromosomal abnormality. All 
subjects completed a thorough neurodevelopmental assessment with the Vineland 
Adaptive Behavior Scales at the time of saliva collection. A total of 246 miRNAs 
were detected and quantified in at least half the samples by RNA-Seq and used to 
perform between-group comparisons with non-parametric testing, multivariate 
logistic regression and classification analyses, as well as Monte-Carlo 
Cross-Validation (MCCV). The top miRNAs were examined for correlations with 
measures of adaptive behavior. Functional enrichment analysis of the highest 
confidence mRNA targets of the top differentially expressed miRNAs was performed 
using the Database for Annotation, Visualization, and Integrated Discovery 
(DAVID), as well as the Simons Foundation Autism Database (AutDB) of ASD 
candidate genes.
RESULTS: Fourteen miRNAs were differentially expressed in ASD subjects compared 
to controls (p <0.05; FDR <0.15) and showed more than 95 % accuracy at 
distinguishing subject groups in the best-fit logistic regression model. MCCV 
revealed an average ROC-AUC value of 0.92 across 100 simulations, further 
supporting the robustness of the findings. Most of the 14 miRNAs showed 
significant correlations with Vineland neurodevelopmental scores. Functional 
enrichment analysis detected significant over-representation of target gene 
clusters related to transcriptional activation, neuronal development, and AutDB 
genes.
CONCLUSION: Measurement of salivary miRNA in this pilot study of subjects with 
mild ASD demonstrated differential expression of 14 miRNAs that are expressed in 
the developing brain, impact mRNAs related to brain development, and correlate 
with neurodevelopmental measures of adaptive behavior. These miRNAs have high 
specificity and cross-validated utility as a potential screening tool for ASD.

DOI: 10.1186/s12887-016-0586-x
PMCID: PMC4841962
PMID: 27105825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Cell Rep. 2020 Jun 2;31(9):107716. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2020.107716.

Analysis of Genetically Regulated Gene Expression Identifies a Prefrontal PTSD 
Gene, SNRNP35, Specific to Military Cohorts.

Huckins LM(1), Chatzinakos C(2), Breen MS(3), Hartmann J(4), Klengel T(5), da 
Silva Almeida AC(6), Dobbyn A(7), Girdhar K(7), Hoffman GE(7), Klengel C(4), 
Logue MW(8), Lori A(9), Maihofer AX(10), Morrison FG(11), Nguyen HT(7), Park 
Y(12), Ruderfer D(13), Sloofman LG(7), van Rooij SJH(9); PTSD Working Group of 
Psychiatric Genomics Consortium; Baker DG(14), Chen CY(15), Cox N(13), Duncan 
LE(16), Geyer MA(10), Glatt SJ(17), Im HK(18), Risbrough VB(10), Smoller JW(15), 
Stein DJ(19), Yehuda R(20), Liberzon I(21), Koenen KC(22), Jovanovic T(23), 
Kellis M(12), Miller MW(11), Bacanu SA(24), Nievergelt CM(10), Buxbaum JD(25), 
Sklar P(26), Ressler KJ(4), Stahl EA(7), Daskalakis NP(27).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY 10029, USA; Department of Genetics and Genomics, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA; Pamela Sklar Division of Psychiatric 
Genomics, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA; 
Icahn Institute for Genomics and Multiscale Biology, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA; Seaver Autism Center for Research and 
Treatment, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA; 
Mental Illness Research, Education and Clinical Centers, James J. Peters 
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Bronx, NY 10468, USA. Electronic 
address: laura.huckins@mssm.edu.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, McLean Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Belmont, 
MA 02478, USA; Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT 
and Harvard, Cambridge, MA 02142, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY 10029, USA; Department of Genetics and Genomics, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA; Seaver Autism Center for Research and 
Treatment, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, McLean Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Belmont, 
MA 02478, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, McLean Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Belmont, 
MA 02478, USA; Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical 
Center Goettingen, Goettingen 37075, Germany.
(6)Department of Biotherapeutic and Medicinal Sciences, Biogen, Cambridge, MA, 
02142, USA.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY 10029, USA; Department of Genetics and Genomics, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA; Pamela Sklar Division of Psychiatric 
Genomics, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA; 
Icahn Institute for Genomics and Multiscale Biology, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA.
(8)National Center for PTSD at VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, MA 02130, 
USA; Department of Psychiatry, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA 
02118, USA; Biomedical Genetics, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, 
MA 02118, USA; Department of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public 
Health, Boston, MA 02118, USA.
(9)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory University, Atlanta, 
GA 30329, USA.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 
92093, USA; Center for Excellence in Stress and Mental Health, Veterans Affairs 
San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, CA 92161, USA; Research Service, 
Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, CA 92161, USA.
(11)National Center for PTSD at VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, MA 02130, 
USA; Department of Psychiatry, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA 
02118, USA.
(12)Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA; Broad Institute of MIT and 
Harvard, Cambridge, MA 02142, USA.
(13)Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN 37232, USA.
(14)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 
92093, USA; Center for Excellence in Stress and Mental Health, Veterans Affairs 
San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, CA 92161, USA; Psychiatry Service, 
Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, CA 92161, USA.
(15)Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 
Cambridge, MA 02142, USA; Psychiatric & Neurodevelopmental Genetics Unit, Center 
for Genomic Medicine, Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA; Analytic and Translational 
Genetics Unit, Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA.
(16)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(17)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, State University of New 
York - Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, 13210, USA.
(18)Department of Medicine, Section of Genetic Medicine, The University of 
Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA; Center for Translational Data Science, The 
University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60616, USA.
(19)SAMRC Unit on Risk & Resilience in Mental Disorders, Department of 
Psychiatry, University of Cape Town, Cape Town 7700, South Africa.
(20)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY 10029, USA; Department of Neuroscience, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA; Mental Health Care Center, James J. Peters 
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Bronx, NY 10468, USA.
(21)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science, Texas A&M University 
College of Medicine, Bryan, TX 77807, USA.
(22)Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 
Cambridge, MA 02142, USA; Psychiatric & Neurodevelopmental Genetics Unit, Center 
for Genomic Medicine, Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA; Department of Epidemiology, 
Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(23)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory University, Atlanta, 
GA 30329, USA; Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neuroscience, Wayne State 
University, Detroit, MI, USA.
(24)Department of Psychiatry, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA 
23298, USA.
(25)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY 10029, USA; Department of Genetics and Genomics, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA; Icahn Institute for Genomics and 
Multiscale Biology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, 
USA; Seaver Autism Center for Research and Treatment, Icahn School of Medicine 
at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA; Department of Neuroscience, Icahn 
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA.
(26)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY 10029, USA; Department of Genetics and Genomics, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA; Pamela Sklar Division of Psychiatric 
Genomics, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA; 
Icahn Institute for Genomics and Multiscale Biology, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA; Department of Neuroscience, Icahn School 
of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA.
(27)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY 10029, USA; Department of Psychiatry, McLean Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Belmont, MA 02478, USA; Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad 
Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA 02142, USA. Electronic address: 
ndaskalakis@mclean.harvard.edu.

To reveal post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) genetic risk influences on 
tissue-specific gene expression, we use brain and non-brain transcriptomic 
imputation. We impute genetically regulated gene expression (GReX) in 29,539 
PTSD cases and 166,145 controls from 70 ancestry-specific cohorts and identify 
18 significant GReX-PTSD associations corresponding to specific tissue-gene 
pairs. The results suggest substantial genetic heterogeneity based on ancestry, 
cohort type (military versus civilian), and sex. Two study-wide significant PTSD 
associations are identified in European and military European cohorts; ZNF140 is 
predicted to be upregulated in whole blood, and SNRNP35 is predicted to be 
downregulated in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, respectively. In peripheral 
leukocytes from 175 marines, the observed PTSD differential gene expression 
correlates with the predicted differences for these individuals, and deployment 
stress produces glucocorticoid-regulated expression changes that include 
downregulation of both ZNF140 and SNRNP35. SNRNP35 knockdown in cells validates 
its functional role in U12-intron splicing. Finally, exogenous glucocorticoids 
in mice downregulate prefrontal Snrnp35 expression.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2020.107716
PMCID: PMC7359754
PMID: 32492425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests J.W.S. is an unpaid 
member of the Bipolar/Depression Research Community Advisory Panel of 23andMe. 
D.J.S. has received research grants and/or consultancy honoraria from Biocodex, 
Lundbeck, and Sun. R.Y. is a co-inventor of the following patent: “Genes 
associated with posttraumatic-stress disorder, WO 2010029176 A1.” I.L. has been 
a consultant for ARMGO Pharmaceuticals, Sunovion Pharmaceuticals, and Trimaran 
Pharma. K.J.R. has received consulting income from Alkermes and is on scientific 
advisory boards for Janssen, Verily, and Resilience Therapeutics. He has also 
received sponsored research support from Takeda and Brainsway. N.P.D. has held a 
part-time paid position at Cohen Veteran Bioscience. He has also been a 
consultant for Sunovion Pharmaceuticals.


32. Transl Psychiatry. 2016 Dec 13;6(12):e981. doi: 10.1038/tp.2016.148.

Insights into psychosis risk from leukocyte microRNA expression.

Jeffries CD(1), Perkins DO(2), Chandler SD(3), Stark T(4), Yeo E(5), Addington 
J(6), Bearden CE(7)(8), Cadenhead KS(9), Cannon TD(10), Cornblatt BA(11), 
Mathalon DH(12), McGlashan TH(13), Seidman LJ(14), Walker EF(15)(16), Woods 
SW(13), Glatt SJ(17), Tsuang M(3).

Author information:
(1)Renaissance Computing Institute, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, 
NC, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(3)Center for Behavioral Genomics, Department of Psychiatry, and the Institute 
of Genomic Medicine, University of California, San Diego, San Diego, CA, USA.
(4)Division of Biological Sciences, University of California, San Diego, San 
Diego, CA, USA.
(5)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego, San Diego, CA, USA.
(6)Hotchkiss Brain Institute, Department of Psychiatry, University of Calgary, 
Calgary, AB, Canada.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences, University of 
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(8)Department of Psychology, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, 
CA, USA.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, San Diego, CA, 
USA.
(10)Departments of Psychology and Psychiatry, Yale University, New Haven, CT, 
USA.
(11)Department of Psychiatry, Zucker Hillside Hospital, Glen Oaks, NY, USA.
(12)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(13)Department of Psychiatry, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA.
(14)Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School at Beth Israel Deaconess 
Medical Center and Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(15)Department of Psychology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(16)Department of Psychiatry, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(17)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, SUNY Upstate Medical 
University, Syracuse, NY, USA.

Dysregulation of immune system functions has been implicated in schizophrenia, 
suggesting that immune cells may be involved in the development of the disorder. 
With the goal of a biomarker assay for psychosis risk, we performed small RNA 
sequencing on RNA isolated from circulating immune cells. We compared baseline 
microRNA (miRNA) expression for persons who were unaffected (n=27) or who, over 
a subsequent 2-year period, were at clinical high risk but did not progress to 
psychosis (n=37), or were at high risk and did progress to psychosis (n=30). A 
greedy algorithm process led to selection of five miRNAs that when summed with 
+1 weights distinguished progressed from nonprogressed subjects with an area 
under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.86. Of the five, miR-941 
is human-specific with incompletely understood functions, but the other four are 
prominent in multiple immune system pathways. Three of those four are 
downregulated in progressed vs. nonprogressed subjects (with weight -1 in a 
classifier function that increases with risk); all three have also been 
independently reported as downregulated in monocytes from schizophrenia patients 
vs. unaffected subjects. Importantly, these findings passed stringent 
randomization tests that minimized the risk of conclusions arising by chance. 
Regarding miRNA-miRNA correlations over the three groups, progressed subjects 
were found to have much weaker miRNA orchestration than nonprogressed or 
unaffected subjects. If independently verified, the leukocytic miRNA biomarker 
assay might improve accuracy of psychosis high-risk assessments and eventually 
help rationalize preventative intervention decisions.

DOI: 10.1038/tp.2016.148
PMCID: PMC5290334
PMID: 27959328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2023 Jun;70(6):e30324. doi: 10.1002/pbc.30324. Epub 2023 
Apr 5.

An institutional review of genomic sequencing in pediatric solid tumors.

Turco GM(1), Gupta A(2), Monteleone P(3), Kelly KM(2), Klein RD(4), Wiltsie 
L(5), Barth M(2).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Hematology/Oncology Fellow, Duke University, Durham, North 
Carolina, USA.
(2)Division of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Roswell Park Oishei Children's 
Cancer and Blood Disorders Program, Buffalo, New York, USA.
(3)Division of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, State University of New York 
Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, New York, USA.
(4)OmniSeq Corporation, Buffalo, New York, USA.
(5)Division of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital for 
Children, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND: Although tumor genomic profiling has aided the advancement of 
targeted genetic therapy, its clinical integration remains a challenge in 
pediatric cancers due to lower mutation frequency and less available targeted 
drugs. There have been multiple novel studies examining molecular sequencing in 
pediatrics; however, many of these studies primarily utilized large-scale, 
genome-wide screening applications that limit applicable use due to the 
availability of testing. This study examined the institutional use of a 
targeted, clinically available approach to tumor genomic sequencing.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review was performed on pediatric patients with 
solid tumors who were managed at Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center and 
underwent molecular testing of their tumor biopsy via OmniSeq from August 2016 
to July 2021. Results were reviewed for mutations considered to be "actionable" 
by targeted therapy. Patients with actionable mutations were further examined to 
evaluate treatment course, receival of targeted therapy, and clinical outcomes.
RESULTS: We identified 64 pediatric patients consisting of 20 (31%) with CNS 
tumors and 44 (69%) with non-CNS tumors, ranging in age from 9 months to 21 
years. Thirty-five total actionable mutations were identified amongst 27 
patients (42%). Of these 27, 12 patients (44%) received at least 1 targeted drug 
against a respective actionable mutation, of which 6 patients (50%) achieved 
clinical benefit to therapy, including 1 complete response.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of a clinically focused and readily available targeted 
molecular sequencing panel identified actionable mutations at a comparable rate 
to the large-scale, less readily available sequencing panels utilized in other 
studies. Half of our patients who received targeted therapy achieved a complete 
response or clinical benefit from therapy. Although targeted therapy has a role 
in pediatric cancer treatment, many newer drugs require further research on 
their safety and efficacy.

© 2023 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.30324
PMID: 37017066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. BMC Bioinformatics. 2015 Jul 25;16:228. doi: 10.1186/s12859-015-0673-2.

GESPA: classifying nsSNPs to predict disease association.

Khurana JK(1), Reeder JE(2), Shrimpton AE(3), Thakar J(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA. 
jaykk128@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Rochester, Rochester, 
NY, USA. jay_reeder@urmc.rochester.edu.
(3)Department of Pathology, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA. 
shrimpta@upstate.edu.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Rochester, 
Rochester, NY, USA. Juilee_Thakar@urmc.rochester.edu.
(5)Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology, University of 
Rochester, Rochester, NY, USA. Juilee_Thakar@urmc.rochester.edu.

BACKGROUND: Non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) are the most 
common DNA sequence variation associated with disease in humans. Thus 
determining the clinical significance of each nsSNP is of great importance. 
Potential detrimental nsSNPs may be identified by genetic association studies or 
by functional analysis in the laboratory, both of which are expensive and time 
consuming. Existing computational methods lack accuracy and features to 
facilitate nsSNP classification for clinical use. We developed the GESPA 
(GEnomic Single nucleotide Polymorphism Analyzer) program to predict the 
pathogenicity and disease phenotype of nsSNPs.
RESULTS: GESPA is a user-friendly software package for classifying disease 
association of nsSNPs. It allows flexibility in acceptable input formats and 
predicts the pathogenicity of a given nsSNP by assessing the conservation of 
amino acids in orthologs and paralogs and supplementing this information with 
data from medical literature. The development and testing of GESPA was performed 
using the humsavar, ClinVar and humvar datasets. Additionally, GESPA also 
predicts the disease phenotype associated with a nsSNP with high accuracy, a 
feature unavailable in existing software. GESPA's overall accuracy exceeds 
existing computational methods for predicting nsSNP pathogenicity. The usability 
of GESPA is enhanced by fast SQL-based cloud storage and retrieval of data.
CONCLUSIONS: GESPA is a novel bioinformatics tool to determine the pathogenicity 
and phenotypes of nsSNPs. We anticipate that GESPA will become a useful clinical 
framework for predicting the disease association of nsSNPs. The program, 
executable jar file, source code, GPL 3.0 license, user guide, and test data 
with instructions are available at http://sourceforge.net/projects/gespa.

DOI: 10.1186/s12859-015-0673-2
PMCID: PMC4513380
PMID: 26206375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. J Forensic Sci. 2015 Sep;60(5):1135-9. doi: 10.1111/1556-4029.12826. Epub 2015 
Aug 14.

Morphoscopic Trait Expression in "Hispanic" Populations.

Hefner JT(1), Pilloud MA(2), Black CJ(3), Anderson BE(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI.
(2)Department of Anthropology, University of Nevada, 1664 N. Virginia Street, MS 
0096, Reno, NV.
(3)Department of Anthropology, Maxwell School, Syracuse University, 209 Maxwell 
Hall, Syracuse, NY.
(4)Pima County Office of the Medical Examiner-Forensic Science Center, 2825 E. 
District Street, Tucson, AZ.

This study evaluates population variation of eight cranial morphoscopic traits 
using samples of known southwest Hispanics (n=72), Guatemalans (n=106), American 
Blacks (n=146), and American Whites (n=218). We applied the support vector 
machine (SVM) method to build a prediction model based on a subsample (20%) of 
the data; the remainder of the data was used as a test sample. The SVM approach 
effectively differentiated between the four groups with correct classification 
rates between 72% (Guatemalan group) and 94% (American Black group). However, 
when the Guatemalan and southwest Hispanic samples were pooled, the same model 
correctly classified all groups with a higher degree of accuracy (American 
Black=96%; American White=77%; and the pooled Hispanic sample=91%). This study 
also identified significant differences between the two Hispanic groups in six 
of the eight traits using univariate statistical tests. These results speak to 
the unique population histories of these samples and the current use of the term 
"Hispanic" within forensic anthropology. Finally, we argue that the SVM can be 
used as a classification model for ancestry estimation in a forensic context and 
as a diagnostic tool may broaden the application of morphoscopic trait data for 
the assessment of ancestry.

© 2015 American Academy of Forensic Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/1556-4029.12826
PMID: 26272587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Infect Dis Model. 2023 Oct 31;8(4):1138-1150. doi: 10.1016/j.idm.2023.10.004. 
eCollection 2023 Dec.

Wastewater surveillance provides 10-days forecasting of COVID-19 
hospitalizations superior to cases and test positivity: A prediction study.

Hill DT(1), Alazawi MA(2), Moran EJ(2)(3), Bennett LJ(2)(3), Bradley I(4), 
Collins MB(5)(6), Gobler CJ(7)(8), Green H(9), Insaf TZ(2)(10), Kmush B(1), 
Neigel D(2)(3), Raymond S(2)(3), Wang M(7)(11), Ye Y(4), Larsen DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY, 13244, USA.
(2)Center for Environmental Health, New York State Department of Health, Albany, 
NY, USA.
(3)CDC Foundation, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(4)Department of Civil, Structural and Environmental Engineering, University at 
Buffalo, Buffalo, NY, USA.
(5)School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences, Sustainability Studies Division, 
Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY, USA.
(6)Institute for Advanced Computational Science, Stony Brook University, Stony 
Brook, NY, USA.
(7)New York State Center for Clean Water Technology, Stony Brook University, 
Stony Brook, NY, USA.
(8)School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences, Stony Brook University, Stony 
Brook, NY, USA.
(9)Department of Environmental Biology, State University of New York College of 
Environmental Science and Forestry, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(10)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
University at Albany, Rensselaer, NY, USA.
(11)Department of Civil Engineering, College of Engineering and Applied 
Sciences, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: The public health response to COVID-19 has shifted to reducing 
deaths and hospitalizations to prevent overwhelming health systems. The amount 
of SARS-CoV-2 RNA fragments in wastewater are known to correlate with clinical 
data including cases and hospital admissions for COVID-19. We developed and 
tested a predictive model for incident COVID-19 hospital admissions in New York 
State using wastewater data.
METHODS: Using county-level COVID-19 hospital admissions and wastewater 
surveillance covering 13.8 million people across 56 counties, we fit a 
generalized linear mixed model predicting new hospital admissions from 
wastewater concentrations of SARS-CoV-2 RNA from April 29, 2020 to June 30, 
2022. We included covariates such as COVID-19 vaccine coverage in the county, 
comorbidities, demographic variables, and holiday gatherings.
FINDINGS: Wastewater concentrations of SARS-CoV-2 RNA correlated with new 
hospital admissions per 100,000 up to ten days prior to admission. Models that 
included wastewater had higher predictive power than models that included 
clinical cases only, increasing the accuracy of the model by 15%. Predicted 
hospital admissions correlated highly with observed admissions (r = 0.77) with 
an average difference of 0.013 hospitalizations per 100,000 (95% CI = [0.002, 
0.025]).
INTERPRETATION: Using wastewater to predict future hospital admissions from 
COVID-19 is accurate and effective with superior results to using case data 
alone. The lead time of ten days could alert the public to take precautions and 
improve resource allocation for seasonal surges.

© 2023 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.idm.2023.10.004
PMCID: PMC10665827
PMID: 38023490

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have not competing 
financial interests.


37. Urol Pract. 2023 Sep;10(5):447-455. doi: 10.1097/UPJ.0000000000000426. Epub 2023 
Jun 22.

Predicting Surgical Experience After Robotic Nerve-sparing Radical Prostatectomy 
Simulation Using a Machine Learning-based Multimodal Analysis of Objective 
Performance Metrics.

Schuler N(1), Shepard L(1), Saxton A(2), Russo J(3), Johnston D(4), Saba P(5), 
Holler T(2), Smith A(6), Kulason S(6), Yee A(6), Ghazi A(7).

Author information:
(1)Simulation Innovation Lab, Carnegie Center for Surgical Innovation, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland.
(2)Department of Urology, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, New 
York.
(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, Ohio.
(4)University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, New 
York.
(5)SUNY Upstate Medical University Norton College of Medicine, Syracuse, New 
York.
(6)Data and Analytics, Intuitive Surgical, Inc, Peachtree Corners, Georgia.
(7)Brady Urological Institute, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland.

INTRODUCTION: Machine learning methods have emerged as objective tools to 
evaluate operative performance in urological procedures. Our objectives were to 
establish machine learning-based methods for predicting surgeon caseload for 
nerve-sparing robot-assisted radical prostatectomy using our validated 
hydrogel-based simulation platform and identify potential metrics of surgical 
expertise.
METHODS: Video, robotic kinematics, and force sensor data were collected from 35 
board-certified urologists at the 2022 AUA conference. Video was annotated for 
surgical gestures. Objective performance indicators were derived from robotic 
system kinematic data. Force metrics were calculated from hydrogel model 
integrated sensors. Data were fitted to 3 supervised machine learning 
models-logistic regression, support vector machine, and k-nearest 
neighbors-which were used to predict procedure-specific learning curve 
proficiency. Recursive feature elimination was used to optimize the best 
performing model.
RESULTS: Logistic regression predicted caseload with the highest AUC score for 
5/7 possible data combinations (force, 64%; objective performance indicators + 
gestures, 94%; objective performance indicators + force, 90%; gestures + force, 
93%; objective performance indicators + gestures + force, 94%). Support vector 
machine predicted the highest AUC score for objective performance indicators 
(82%) and gestures (94%). Logistic regression with recursive feature elimination 
was the most effective model reaching 96% AUC in predicting case-specific 
experience. Most contributory features were identified across all model types.
CONCLUSIONS: We have created a machine learning-based algorithm utilizing a 
novel combination of objective performance indicators, gesture analysis, and 
integrated force metrics to predict surgical experience, capable of 
discriminating between surgeons with low or high robot-assisted radical 
prostatectomy caseload with 96% AUC in a standardized, simulation-based 
environment.

DOI: 10.1097/UPJ.0000000000000426
PMID: 37347812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Psychol Med. 2017 May;47(7):1259-1270. doi: 10.1017/S0033291716003329. Epub 2017 
Jan 9.

Diagnostic utility of brain activity flow patterns analysis in attention deficit 
hyperactivity disorder.

Biederman J(1), Hammerness P(1), Sadeh B(2), Peremen Z(2), Amit A(2), Or-Ly 
H(2), Stern Y(2), Reches A(2), Geva A(2), Faraone SV(3).

Author information:
(1)Massachusettes General Hospital,Boston,MA,USA.
(2)ElMindA Ltd,Herzliya,Israel.
(3)SUNY Upstate Medical University,Syracuse,NY,USA.

BACKGROUND: A previous small study suggested that Brain Network Activation 
(BNA), a novel ERP-based brain network analysis, may have diagnostic utility in 
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). In this study we examined the 
diagnostic capability of a new advanced version of the BNA methodology on a 
larger population of adults with and without ADHD.
METHOD: Subjects were unmedicated right-handed 18- to 55-year-old adults of both 
sexes with and without a DSM-IV diagnosis of ADHD. We collected EEG while the 
subjects were performing a response inhibition task (Go/NoGo) and then applied a 
spatio-temporal Brain Network Activation (BNA) analysis of the EEG data. This 
analysis produced a display of qualitative measures of brain states (BNA scores) 
providing information on cortical connectivity. This complex set of scores was 
then fed into a machine learning algorithm.
RESULTS: The BNA analysis of the EEG data recorded during the Go/NoGo task 
demonstrated a high discriminative capacity between ADHD patients and controls 
(AUC = 0.92, specificity = 0.95, sensitivity = 0.86 for the Go condition; AUC = 
0.84, specificity = 0.91, sensitivity = 0.76 for the NoGo condition).
CONCLUSIONS: BNA methodology can help differentiate between ADHD and healthy 
controls based on functional brain connectivity. The data support the utility of 
the tool to augment clinical examinations by objective evaluation of 
electrophysiological changes associated with ADHD. Results also support a 
network-based approach to the study of ADHD.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291716003329
PMID: 28065167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. J Affect Disord. 2018 Feb;227:450-454. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2017.11.023. Epub 2017 
Nov 10.

Genetic clustering of depressed patients and normal controls based on 
single-nucleotide variant proportion.

Yu C(1), Baune BT(2), Fu KA(3), Wong ML(4), Licinio J(5).

Author information:
(1)Robinson Research Institute, Adelaide Medical School, University of Adelaide, 
Adelaide, SA, Australia; Mind and Brain Theme, South Australian Health and 
Medical Research Institute, Adelaide, SA, Australia; College of Medicine and 
Public Health, Flinders University, Bedford Park, SA, Australia. Electronic 
address: chenglong.yu@adelaide.edu.au.
(2)Discipline of Psychiatry, Adelaide Medical School, University of Adelaide, 
Adelaide, SA, Australia.
(3)School of Statistics and Mathematics, Zhejiang Gongshang University, 
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(4)Mind and Brain Theme, South Australian Health and Medical Research Institute, 
Adelaide, SA, Australia; College of Medicine and Public Health, Flinders 
University, Bedford Park, SA, Australia.
(5)College of Medicine, Departments of Psychiatry, Pharmacology and Medicine, 
State University of New York, Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: Genetic components play important roles in the susceptibility to 
major depressive disorder (MDD). The rapid development of sequencing 
technologies is allowing scientists to contribute new ideas for personalized 
medicine; thus, it is essential to design non-invasive genetic tests on 
sequencing data, which can help physicians diagnose and differentiate depressed 
patients and healthy individuals.
METHODS: We have recently proposed a genetic concept involving single-nucleotide 
variant proportion (SNVP) in genes to study MDD. Using this approach, we 
investigated combinations of distance metrics and hierarchical clustering 
criteria for genetic clustering of depressed patients and ethnically matched 
controls.
RESULTS: We analysed clustering results of 25 human subjects based on their 
SNVPs in 46 newly discovered candidate genes.
CONCLUSIONS: According to our findings, we recommend Canberra metric with Ward's 
method to be used in hierarchical clustering of depressed and normal 
individuals. Futures studies are needed to advance this line of research 
validating our approach in larger datasets, those may also be allow the 
investigation of MDD subtypes.
LIMITATIONS: High quality sequencing costs limited our ability to obtain larger 
datasets.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2017.11.023
PMID: 29154167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Oct 9;21(20):7440. doi: 10.3390/ijms21207440.

Offensive Behavior, Striatal Glutamate Metabolites, and 
Limbic-Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Responses to Stress in Chronic Anxiety.

Ullmann E(1)(2)(3), Chrousos G(3)(4), Perry SW(5), Wong ML(5), Licinio J(5), 
Bornstein SR(2)(6), Tseilikman O(3)(7), Komelkova M(3), Lapshin MS(3), Vasilyeva 
M(3), Zavjalov E(8), Shevelev O(8), Khotskin N(8), Koncevaya G(8), Khotskina 
AS(8), Moshkin M(8), Cherkasova O(9), Sarapultsev A(10)(11), Ibragimov 
R(10)(11), Kritsky I(10)(11), Fegert JM(12), Tseilikman V(3), Yehuda R(13).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics, 
University of Leipzig, 04107 Leipzig, Germany.
(2)Department of Medicine, Technical University of Dresden, 01309 Dresden, 
Germany.
(3)School of Medical Biology, South Ural State University, 454080 Chelyabinsk, 
Russia.
(4)University Research Institute of Maternal and Child Health and Precision 
Medicine, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, 11527 Athens, Greece.
(5)College of Medicine, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY 13210, 
USA.
(6)Rayne Institute, Division of Diabetes & Nutritional Sciences, Endocrinology 
and Diabetes, Faculty of Life Sciences & Medicine, Kings College London, London 
SE5 9PJ, UK.
(7)Department of Fundamental Medicine, Chelyabinsk State University, 454001 
Chelyabinsk, Russia.
(8)Institute of Cytology and Genetics, Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of 
Science, 630090 Novosibirsk, Russia.
(9)Biophysics Laboratory, Institute of Laser Physics, Siberian Branch of the 
Russian Academy of Science, 630090 Novosibirsk, Russia.
(10)Institute of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, Ural Federal University named 
after the first President of Russia, 620026 Ekaterinburg, Russia.
(11)Institute of Immunology and Physiology, Ural Branch of the Russian Academy 
of Science, 620049 Ekaterinburg, Russia.
(12)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Psychotherapy, and 
Psychosomatics, University of Ulm, 89075 Ulm, Germany.
(13)Traumatic Stress Studies Division, ICAHN School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 
New York, NY 10029-6574, USA.

Variations in anxiety-related behavior are associated with individual allostatic 
set-points in chronically stressed rats. Actively offensive rats with the 
externalizing indicators of sniffling and climbing the stimulus and material 
tearing during 10 days of predator scent stress had reduced plasma 
corticosterone, increased striatal glutamate metabolites, and increased adrenal 
11-dehydrocorticosterone content compared to passively defensive rats with the 
internalizing indicators of freezing and grooming, as well as to controls 
without any behavioral changes. These findings suggest that rats that display 
active offensive activity in response to stress develop anxiety associated with 
decreased allostatic set-points and increased resistance to stress.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21207440
PMCID: PMC7589759
PMID: 33050201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


41. Autism Adulthood. 2020 Mar 1;2(1):61-76. doi: 10.1089/aut.2019.0074. Epub 2020 
Mar 11.

Creating Accessible Survey Instruments for Use with Autistic Adults and People 
with Intellectual Disability: Lessons Learned and Recommendations.

Nicolaidis C(1)(2)(3)(4), Raymaker DM(1)(3)(4), McDonald KE(3)(5), Lund 
EM(4)(6), Leotti S(1)(4)(7), Kapp SK(3)(8), Katz M(4)(9), Beers LM(4), Kripke 
C(3)(10), Maslak J(3), Hunter M(3), Zhen KY(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work, Portland State University, Portland, Oregon.
(2)Department of Medicine, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, Oregon.
(3)Academic Autism Spectrum Partnership in Research and Education, Portland, 
Oregon.
(4)Partnering with People with Developmental Disabilities to Address Violence 
Consortium, Missoula, Montana.
(5)Department of Public Health, Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York.
(6)Department of Educational Studies in Psychology, Research, Methodology, and 
Counseling, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
(7)College of Health Sciences, Division of Social Work, University of Wyoming, 
Laramie, Wyoming.
(8)Department of Psychology, University of Portsmouth, Portsmouth, United 
Kingdom.
(9)Rural Institute on Disabilities, University of Montana, Missoula, Montana.
(10)Department of Family and Community Medicine, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California.

Despite growing appreciation of the need for research on autism in adulthood, 
few survey instruments have been validated for use with autistic adults. We 
conducted an institutional ethnography of two related partnerships that used 
participatory approaches to conduct research in collaboration with autistic 
people and people with intellectual disability. In this article, we focus on 
lessons learned from adapting survey instruments for use in six separate 
studies. Community partners identified several common problems that made 
original instruments inaccessible. Examples included: (1) the use of difficult 
vocabulary, confusing terms, or figures of speech; (2) complex sentence 
structure, confusing grammar, or incomplete phrases; (3) imprecise response 
options; (4) variation in item response based on different contexts; (5) anxiety 
related to not being able to answer with full accuracy; (6) lack of items to 
fully capture the autism-specific aspects of a construct; and (7) ableist 
language or concepts. Common adaptations included: (1) adding prefaces to 
increase precision or explain context; (2) modifying items to simplify sentence 
structure; (3) substituting difficult vocabulary words, confusing terms, or 
figures of speech with more straightforward terms; (4) adding hotlinks that 
define problematic terms or offer examples or clarifications; (5) adding 
graphics to increase clarity of response options; and (6) adding new items 
related to autism-specific aspects of the construct. We caution against using 
instruments developed for other populations unless instruments are carefully 
tested with autistic adults, and we describe one possible approach to ensure 
that instruments are accessible to a wide range of autistic participants.
LAY SUMMARY: Why is this topic important?: To understand what can improve the 
lives of autistic adults, researchers need to collect survey data directly from 
autistic adults. However, most survey instruments were made for the general 
population and may or may not work well for autistic adults.What is the purpose 
of this article?: To use lessons learned from our experience adapting surveys-in 
partnership with autistic adults-to create a set of recommendations for how 
researchers may adapt instruments to be accessible to autistic adults.What did 
the authors do?: Between 2006 and 2019, the Academic Autism Spectrum Partnership 
in Research and Education (AASPIRE) and the Partnering with People with 
Developmental Disabilities to Address Violence Consortium used a participatory 
research approach to adapt many survey instruments for use in six separate 
studies. We reviewed records from these partnerships and identified important 
lessons.What is this recommended adaptation process like?: The adaptation 
process includes the following:  (1) Co-creating collaboration guidelines and 
providing community partners with necessary background about terminology and 
processes used in survey research; (2) Collaboratively selecting which 
constructs to measure; (3) Discussing each construct so that we can have a 
shared understanding of what it means; (4) Identifying existing instruments for 
each construct; (5) Selecting among available instruments (or deciding that none 
are acceptable and that we need to create a new measure); (6) Assessing the 
necessary adaptations for each instrument; (7) Collaboratively modifying 
prefaces, items, or response options, as needed; (8) Adding "hotlink" 
definitions where necessary to clarify or provide examples of terms and 
constructs; (9) Creating new measures, when needed, in partnership with autistic 
adults;(10)Considering the appropriateness of creating proxy report versions of 
each adapted measure; and(11)Assessing the adapted instruments' psychometric 
properties.What were common concerns about existing instruments?: Partners often 
said that, if taking a survey that used the original instruments, they would 
experience confusion, frustration, anxiety, or anger. They repeatedly stated 
that, faced with such measures, they would offer unreliable answers, leave items 
blank, or just stop participating in the study. Common concerns included the use 
of difficult vocabulary, confusing terms, complex sentence structure, convoluted 
phrasings, figures of speech, or imprecise language. Partners struggled with 
response options that used vague terms. They also felt anxious if their answer 
might not be completely accurate or if their responses could vary in different 
situations. Often the surveys did not completely capture the intended idea. 
Sometimes, instruments used offensive language or ideas. And in some cases, 
there just were not any instruments to measure what they thought was 
important.What were common adaptations?: Common adaptations included: (1) adding 
prefaces to increase precision or explain context; (2) modifying items to 
simplify sentence structure; (3) substituting difficult vocabulary words, 
confusing terms, or figures of speech with more straightforward terms; (4) 
adding hotlinks that define problematic terms or offer examples or 
clarifications; (5) adding graphics to increase clarity of response options; and 
(6) adding new items related to autism-specific aspects of the construct.How 
will this article help autistic adults now or in the future?: We hope that this 
article encourages researchers to collaborate with autistic adults to create 
better survey instruments. That way, when researchers evaluate interventions and 
services, they can have the right tools to see if they are effective.

© Christina Nicolaidis et al., 2020; Published by Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

DOI: 10.1089/aut.2019.0074
PMCID: PMC7188318
PMID: 32355908

Conflict of interest statement: No competing financial interests exist.


42. Brain Inj. 2014;28(4):422-30. doi: 10.3109/02699052.2014.884241. Epub 2014 Feb 
24.

Predicting mild traumatic brain injury patients at risk of persistent symptoms 
in the Emergency Department.

Wojcik SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Upstate Medical University , Syracuse, NY , 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: To identify factors that can predict which emergency department (ED) 
patients with mTBI are likely to develop persistent post-concussion symptoms 
(PPCS).
DESIGN: A matched case-control study was conducted at a Level 1 trauma centre 
between June 2006 and July 2009. Patients diagnosed with mTBI in the ED and 
diagnosed at a concussion management programme with at least one PPCS (85 cases) 
were compared to patients diagnosed with mTBI in the ED (340 controls) to 
determine if factors assessed at the time of ED presentation could predict 
patients likely to develop persistent symptoms.
RESULTS: Multivariable hierarchical logistic regression with variables 
indicating increased risk for PPCS (prior mTBI, history of depression, history 
of anxiety, multiple injury, forgetfulness/poor memory, noise sensitivity, or 
light sensitivity) resulted in a final predictive model including prior mTBI, 
history of anxiety, forgetfulness/poor memory and light sensitivity. The final 
model had a specificity of 87.9% and a sensitivity of 69.9%.
CONCLUSIONS: A strong prediction model to identify those ED patients with mTBI 
at risk for PPCS was developed and could be easily implemented in the ED; 
therefore, helping to target those patients who would potentially benefit from 
close follow-up.

DOI: 10.3109/02699052.2014.884241
PMID: 24564636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Am J Med Genet A. 2023 Jul;191(7):1741-1757. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.63195. Epub 
2023 Apr 12.

Development of informant-report neurobehavioral survey scales for PTEN hamartoma 
tumor syndrome and related neurodevelopmental genetic syndromes.

Frazier TW(1)(2), Busch RM(3)(4), Klaas P(3), Lachlan K(5), Jeste S(6), Kolevzon 
A(7), Loth E(8), Harris J(9), Speer L(10), Pepper T(11), Anthony K(12), Graglia 
JM(13), Delagrammatikas C(14), Bedrosian-Sermone S(15), Beekhuyzen J(16), 
Smith-Hicks C(9), Sahin M(17), Eng C(4), Hardan AY(18), Uljarević M(18)(19).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, John Carroll University, University Heights, Ohio, 
USA.
(2)Departments of Pediatrics and Psychiatry, SUNY Upstate Medical University, 
Syracuse, New York, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Neurological Institute, Clinic Cleveland, Cleveland, 
Ohio, USA.
(4)Genomic Medicine Institute, Lerner Research Institute, Clinic Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(5)Human Genetics and Genomic Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University Hospital 
Southampton NHS Foundation Trust, Southampton, UK.
(6)Division of Neurology, Children's Hospital of Los Angeles, Los Angeles, 
California, USA.
(7)Departments of Psychiatry and Pediatrics, Seaver Autism Center for Research 
and Treatment Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York, USA.
(8)Department of Forensic and Neurodevelopmental Science, Institute of 
Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience Kings College London, London, UK.
(9)Krieger Institute and Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Department 
of Neurology Kennedy, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(10)Department of Psychology, Frazier Behavioral Health, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(11)PTEN Research Foundation, Cheltenham, UK.
(12)PTEN Hamartoma Tumor Syndrome Foundation, Huntsville, Alabama, USA.
(13)SYNGAP Research Fund, Palo Alto, California, USA.
(14)Malan Syndrome Foundation, Old Bridge, New Jersey, USA.
(15)ADNP Kids Foundation, Brush Prairie, Washington, USA.
(16)Adroit Research, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(17)Rosamund Stone Zander Translational Neuroscience Center, Department of 
Neurology, Boston Children's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(18)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University, 
Stanford, California, USA.
(19)Melbourne School of Psychological Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Dentistry 
and Health Sciences, The University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

There are few well-validated measures that are appropriate for assessing the 
full range of neurobehavioral presentations in PTEN hamartoma tumor syndrome 
(PHTS) and other neurodevelopmental genetic syndromes (NDGS). As potential 
therapeutics are developed, having reliable, valid, free, and easily accessible 
measures to track a range of neurobehavioral domains will be crucial for future 
clinical trials. This study focused on the development and initial psychometric 
evaluation of a set of freely available informant-report survey scales for 
PHTS-the Neurobehavioral Evaluation Tool (NET). Concept elicitation, 
quantitative ratings, and cognitive interviewing processes were conducted with 
stakeholders and clinician-scientist experts, used to identify the most 
important neurobehavioral domains for this population, and to ensure items were 
appropriate for the full range of individuals with PHTS. Results of this process 
identified a PHTS neurobehavioral impact model with 11 domains. The final NET 
scales assessing these domains were administered to a sample of 384 participants 
(median completion time = 20.6 min), including 32 people with PHTS, 141 with 
other NDGS, 47 with idiopathic neurodevelopmental disorder (NDD), and 164 
neurotypical controls. Initial psychometric results for the total scores of each 
scale indicated very good model (ω = 0.83-0.99) and internal consistency 
reliability (α = 0.82-0.98) as well as excellent test-retest reproducibility at 
1-month follow-up (r = 0.78-0.98) and stability at 4-month follow-up 
(r = 0.76-0.96). Conditional reliability estimates indicated very strong 
measurement precision in key score ranges for assessing PHTS and other people 
with NDGS and/or idiopathic NDD. Comparisons across domains between PHTS and the 
other groups revealed specific patterns of symptoms and functioning, including 
lower levels of challenging behavior and more developed daily living and 
executive functioning skills relative to other NDGS. The NET appears to be a 
reliable and potentially useful tool for clinical characterization and 
monitoring of neurobehavioral symptoms in PHTS and may also have utility in the 
assessment of other NDGS and idiopathic NDD. Additional validation work, 
including convergent and discriminant validity analyses, are needed to replicate 
and extend these observations.

© 2023 The Authors. American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A published by 
Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.63195
PMID: 37045800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Am J Psychiatry. 2021 Jan 1;178(1):77-86. doi: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2020.20010015.

A Genetics-First Approach to Dissecting the Heterogeneity of Autism: Phenotypic 
Comparison of Autism Risk Copy Number Variants.

Chawner SJRA(1), Doherty JL(1), Anney RJL(1), Antshel KM(1), Bearden CE(1), 
Bernier R(1), Chung WK(1), Clements CC(1), Curran SR(1), Cuturilo G(1), 
Fiksinski AM(1), Gallagher L(1), Goin-Kochel RP(1), Gur RE(1), Hanson E(1), 
Jacquemont S(1), Kates WR(1), Kushan L(1), Maillard AM(1), McDonald-McGinn 
DM(1), Mihaljevic M(1), Miller JS(1), Moss H(1), Pejovic-Milovancevic M(1), 
Schultz RT(1), Green-Snyder L(1), Vorstman JA(1), Wenger TL(1); IMAGINE-ID 
Consortium(1); Hall J(1), Owen MJ(1), van den Bree MBM(1).

Collaborators: Baker K, Dewhurst E, Lafont A, Raymond FL, Shirley T, Tilley H, 
Timur H, Titterton C, Walker N, Wallwork S, Wicks F, Ye Z, Erwood M, Andrews S, 
Birch P, Bowen S, Bradley K, Challenger A, Chawner S, Cuthbert A, Hall J, 
Holmans P, Law S, Lewis N, Morrison S, Moss H, Owen M, Ray S, Sopp M, Tong M, 
van den Bree M, Coscini N, Davies S, Denaxas S, Denyer H, Fatih N, Juj M, Kerry 
E, Lucock A, Mandy W, Printzlau F, Skuse D, Srinivasan R, Walker S, Watkins A, 
Wolstencroft J, Searle B, Pelling A, Dean J, Robertson L, Williams D, Donaldson 
A, Raymond L, Procter A, Berg J, Crow Y, Lampe A, Rankin J, Joss S, Chitty L, 
Flinter F, Holder M, Kraus A, Barwell J, Vasudevan P, Weber A, Newman W, Splitt 
M, Clowes V, van Dijk F, Harrison R, Kini U, Quarrell O, Baralle D, Mansour S.

Author information:
(1)MRC Centre for Neuropsychiatric Genetics and Genomics, Division of 
Psychological Medicine and Clinical Neurosciences, Cardiff University, Cardiff, 
United Kingdom (Chawner, Doherty, Anney, Moss, Hall, Owen, van den Bree); 
Cardiff University Centre for Human Developmental Science, School of Psychology, 
Cardiff University, Cardiff, United Kingdom (Chawner); Department of Psychology, 
Syracuse University, Syracuse, N.Y. (Antshel); Department of Psychiatry and 
Behavioral Sciences and Psychology, Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human 
Behavior, University of California, Los Angeles (Bearden, Kushan); Departments 
of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle 
(Bernier); Departments of Pediatrics and Medicine, Columbia University Irving 
Medical Center, New York (Chung); Center for Autism Research, Children's 
Hospital of Philadelphia (Clements, Miller, Schultz); Department of Psychology, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia (Clements); South West London and St. 
George's Mental Health National Health Service Foundation Trust, London 
(Curran); University Children's Hospital, Belgrade, Serbia; Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Belgrade, Serbia (Cuturilo); Department of Psychiatry, Brain 
Center, University Medical Center Utrecht, the Netherlands (Fiksinski, 
Vorstman); Clinical Genetics Research Program, Centre for Addiction and Mental 
Health, and the Dalglish Family 22q Clinic for 22q11.2 Deletion Syndrome, 
Toronto General Hospital, University Health Network, Toronto (Fiksinski); 
Department of Psychiatry, Trinity College Dublin, Ireland (Gallagher); 
Department of Pediatrics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston (Goin-Kochel); 
Lifespan Brain Institute, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and Perelman 
School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia (Gur); Department 
of Psychiatry, Neurodevelopment and Psychosis Section, Perelman School of 
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia (Gur); Department of Child 
and Adolescent Psychiatry, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (Gur, Schultz); 
Developmental Medicine, Children's Hospital Boston/Harvard Medical School, 
Boston (Hanson); Department of Pediatrics, University of Montreal (Jacquemont, 
Maillard); Centre de recherche, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Sainte Justine, 
Montreal (Jacquemont); Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, State 
University of New York at Upstate Medical University, Syracuse (Kates); Service 
des Troubles du Spectre de l'Autisme et Apparentés, Lausanne University 
Hospital, Lausanne, Switzerland (Maillard); Division of Human Genetics and 
Molecular Biology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (McDonald-McGinn); 22q 
and You Center, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (McDonald-McGinn); 
Department of Pediatrics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 
(McDonald-McGinn, Schultz); Clinic for Psychiatry, Clinical Center of Serbia, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade, Serbia (Mihaljevic); Institute of 
Mental Health, Belgrade, Serbia, Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade, 
Serbia (Pejovic-Milovancevic); Simons Foundation, New York (Green-Snyder); 
Program in Genetics and Genome Biology, SickKids Research Institute, Toronto 
(Vorstman); Department of Psychiatry, Hospital for Sick Children, University of 
Toronto (Vorstman); Department of Pediatrics, Seattle Children's Hospital, 
Seattle (Wenger); and Neuroscience and Mental Health Research Institute, Cardiff 
University, Cardiff, United Kingdom (Hall, Owen, van den Bree).

Comment in
    Am J Psychiatry. 2021 Jan 1;178(1):11-12.

OBJECTIVE: Certain copy number variants (CNVs) greatly increase the risk of 
autism. The authors conducted a genetics-first study to investigate whether 
heterogeneity in the clinical presentation of autism is underpinned by specific 
genotype-phenotype relationships.
METHODS: This international study included 547 individuals (mean age, 12.3 years 
[SD=4.2], 54% male) who were ascertained on the basis of having a genetic 
diagnosis of a rare CNV associated with high risk of autism (82 16p11.2 deletion 
carriers, 50 16p11.2 duplication carriers, 370 22q11.2 deletion carriers, and 45 
22q11.2 duplication carriers), as well as 2,027 individuals (mean age, 9.1 years 
[SD=4.9], 86% male) with autism of heterogeneous etiology. Assessments included 
the Autism Diagnostic Interview-Revised and IQ testing.
RESULTS: The four genetic variant groups differed in autism symptom severity, 
autism subdomain profile, and IQ profile. However, substantial variability was 
observed in phenotypic outcome in individual genetic variant groups (74%-97% of 
the variance, depending on the trait), whereas variability between groups was 
low (1%-21%, depending on the trait). CNV carriers who met autism criteria were 
compared with individuals with heterogeneous autism, and a range of profile 
differences were identified. When clinical cutoff scores were applied, 54% of 
individuals with one of the four CNVs who did not meet full autism diagnostic 
criteria had elevated levels of autistic traits.
CONCLUSIONS: Many CNV carriers do not meet full diagnostic criteria for autism 
but nevertheless meet clinical cutoffs for autistic traits. Although profile 
differences between variants were observed, there is considerable variability in 
clinical symptoms in the same variant.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2020.20010015
PMCID: PMC8022239
PMID: 33384013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests JH reports grants from 
Wyeth, Pfizer, AbbVie, A&Z Pharmaceutical, and Takeda Pharmaceuticals outside of 
the submitted work. MJO and MBMvdB report grants from Takeda Pharmaceuticals 
outside of the submitted work. All other authors declare no competing interests.


45. Transl Psychiatry. 2023 Mar 22;13(1):98. doi: 10.1038/s41398-023-02390-w.

BrainGENIE: The Brain Gene Expression and Network Imputation Engine.

Hess JL(1), Quinn TP(2), Zhang C(3), Hearn GC(3), Chen S(1); Neuropsychiatric 
Consortium for Analysis and Sharing of Transcriptomes; Kong SW(4)(5), Cairns 
M(6)(7)(8), Tsuang MT(9)(10), Faraone SV(1)(3), Glatt SJ(11)(12).

Collaborators: Beveridge NJ, Carr V, de Jong S, Gardiner E, Kelly B, 
Kumarasinghe N, Ophoff R, Schall U, Scott R, Stamova B, Tooney P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, Norton College of Medicine at 
SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(2)Applied Artificial Intelligence Institute (A2I2), Deakin University, Geelong, 
Australia.
(3)Department of Neuroscience & Physiology, Norton College of Medicine at SUNY 
Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(4)Computational Health Informatics Program, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, 
MA, USA.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(6)School of Biomedical Sciences & Pharmacy, Faculty of Health, The University 
of Newcastle, New South Wales, Callaghan, New South Wales, Australia.
(7)Hunter Medical Research Institute, Newcastle, Australia.
(8)Centre for Brain & Mental Health Research, The University of Newcastle, 
Callaghan, Australia.
(9)Center for Behavioral Genomics, Department of Psychiatry, Institute for 
Genomic Medicine, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(10)Harvard Institute of Psychiatric Epidemiology and Genetics, Boston, MA, USA.
(11)Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, Norton College of Medicine 
at SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA. 
stephen.glatt@psychgenelab.com.
(12)Department of Neuroscience & Physiology, Norton College of Medicine at SUNY 
Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA. stephen.glatt@psychgenelab.com.

In vivo experimental analysis of human brain tissue poses substantial challenges 
and ethical concerns. To address this problem, we developed a computational 
method called the Brain Gene Expression and Network-Imputation Engine 
(BrainGENIE) that leverages peripheral-blood transcriptomes to predict brain 
tissue-specific gene-expression levels. Paired blood-brain transcriptomic data 
collected by the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) Project was used to train 
BrainGENIE models to predict gene-expression levels in ten distinct brain 
regions using whole-blood gene-expression profiles. The performance of 
BrainGENIE was compared to PrediXcan, a popular method for imputing gene 
expression levels from genotypes. BrainGENIE significantly predicted brain 
tissue-specific expression levels for 2947-11,816 genes (false-discovery 
rate-adjusted p < 0.05), including many transcripts that cannot be predicted 
significantly by a transcriptome-imputation method such as PrediXcan. BrainGENIE 
recapitulated measured diagnosis-related gene-expression changes in the brain 
for autism, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia better than direct correlations 
from blood and predictions from PrediXcan. We developed a convenient software 
toolset for deploying BrainGENIE, and provide recommendations for how best to 
implement models. BrainGENIE complements and, in some ways, outperforms existing 
transcriptome-imputation tools, providing biologically meaningful predictions 
and opening new research avenues.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41398-023-02390-w
PMCID: PMC10033657
PMID: 36949060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: In the past year, Dr. Faraone received income, 
potential income, travel expenses continuing education support, and/or research 
support from Aardvark, Aardwolf, Akili, Atentiv, Corium, Genomind, Ironshore, 
Medice, Noven, Otsuka, Sandoz, Sky Therapeutics, Supernus, Tris, and Vallon. 
With his institution, he has US patent US20130217707 A1 for the use of 
sodium-hydrogen exchange inhibitors in the treatment of ADHD. In previous years, 
he received support from Alcobra, Arbor, Aveksham, Axsome, CogCubed, Eli Lilly, 
Enzymotec, Impact, Janssen, KemPharm, Lundbeck/Takeda, Shire/Takeda, McNeil, 
NeuroLifeSciences, Neurovance, Novartis, Pfizer, Rhodes, Shire, and Sunovion. He 
also receives royalties from books published by Guilford Press: Straight Talk 
about Your Child’s Mental Health; Oxford University Press: Schizophrenia: The 
Facts; and Elsevier: ADHD: Non-Pharmacologic Interventions. In addition, he is 
the program director of www.adhdinadults.com. In the past year, Dr. Glatt has 
received royalties from a book published by Oxford University Press: 
Schizophrenia: The Facts, and consulting fees from Cohen Veterans Bioscience. 
Dr. Cairns is supported by NHMRC project grants (1147644 and 1188493) and an 
NHMRC Senior Research Fellowship (1121474), and a University of Newcastle 
College of Health Medicine and Wellbeing, Gladys M Brawn Senior Fellowship.


46. JAMA Oncol. 2017 Aug 1;3(8):1043-1050. doi: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2016.6749.

Feasibility Assessment of Patient Reporting of Symptomatic Adverse Events in 
Multicenter Cancer Clinical Trials.

Basch E(1)(2), Dueck AC(3), Rogak LJ(2), Minasian LM(4), Kelly WK(5)(6), O'Mara 
AM(7), Denicoff AM(7), Seisler D(8), Atherton PJ(8), Paskett E(9), Carey L(1), 
Dickler M(10), Heist RS(11), Himelstein A(12), Rugo HS(13), Sikov WM(14)(15), 
Socinski MA(16), Venook AP(13), Weckstein DJ(17), Lake DE(10), Biggs DD(12), 
Freedman RA(18), Kuzma C(19), Kirshner JJ(20), Schrag D(21).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of 
North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, New York.
(3)Alliance Statistics and Data Center, Division of Health Sciences Research, 
Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, Arizona.
(4)Division of Cancer Prevention, National Cancer Institute (NCI), Rockville, 
Maryland.
(5)Department of Medical Oncology and Urology, Division of Solid Tumor, Sidney 
Kimmel Medical College at Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania.
(6)Clinical Research and Prostate Cancer Program, Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(7)Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis, NCI, Rockville, Maryland.
(8)Alliance Statistics and Data Center, Division of Health Sciences Research, 
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.
(9)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Division of Epidemiology, College of Public Health, The Ohio State University, 
Columbus.
(10)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
New York.
(11)Department of Thoracic Oncology, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston.
(12)Delaware/Christiana Care NCI Community Oncology Research Program (NCORP), 
Helen F. Graham Cancer Center & Research Institute, Newark.
(13)Department of Medicine, University of California at San Francisco, Helen 
Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, San Francisco.
(14)Program in Women's Oncology, Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Women 
and Infants Hospital of Rhode Island, Providence.
(15)Department of Medicine, Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, 
Providence, Rhode Island.
(16)Thoracic Oncology Program, Florida Hospital Cancer Institute, Orlando.
(17)New Hampshire Oncology Hematology, Hooksett.
(18)Department of Medical Oncology, Harvard Medical School, Dana-Farber Cancer 
Institute, Boston, Massachusetts.
(19)Southeast Clinical Oncology Research Consortium, Winston-Salem, North 
Carolina.
(20)Hematology Oncology Associates of Central New York, East Syracuse.
(21)Division of Population Sciences, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, 
Massachusetts.

Comment in
    JAMA Oncol. 2017 Aug 1;3(8):1029-1031.

IMPORTANCE: In cancer clinical trials, symptomatic adverse events (AEs), such as 
nausea, are reported by investigators rather than by patients. There is 
increasing interest to collect symptomatic AE data via patient-reported outcome 
(PRO) questionnaires, but it is unclear whether it is feasible to implement this 
approach in multicenter trials.
OBJECTIVE: To examine whether patients are willing and able to report their 
symptomatic AEs in multicenter trials.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A total of 361 consecutive patients enrolled 
in any 1 of 9 US multicenter cancer treatment trials were invited to self-report 
13 common symptomatic AEs using a PRO adaptation of the National Cancer 
Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) via tablet 
computers at 5 successive clinic visits. Patient adherence was tracked with 
reasons for missed self-reports. Agreement with clinician AE reports was 
analyzed with weighted κ statistics. Patient and investigator perspectives were 
elicited by survey. The study was conducted from March 15, 2007, to August 11, 
2011. Data analysis was performed from August 9, 2013, to March 21, 2014.
RESULTS: Of the 361 patients invited to participate, 285 individuals enrolled, 
with a median age of 57 years (range, 24-88), 202 (74.3%) female, 241 (85.5%) 
white, 73 (26.8%) with a high school education or less, and 176 (64.7%) who 
reported regular internet use (denominators varied owing to missing data). 
Across all patients and trials, there were 1280 visits during which patients had 
an opportunity to self-report (ie, patients were alive and enrolled in a 
treatment trial at the time of the visit). Self-reports were completed at 1202 
visits (93.9% overall adherence). Adherence was highest at baseline and declined 
over time (visit 1, 100%; visit 2, 96%; visit 3, 95%; visit 4, 91%; and visit 5, 
85%). Reasons for missing PROs included institutional errors in 27 of 48 (56.3%) 
of the cases (eg, staff forgetting to bring computers to patients at visits), 
patients feeling "too ill" in 8 (16.7%), patient refusal in 8 (16.7%), and 
internet connectivity problems in 5 (10.4%). Patient-investigator CTCAE 
agreement was moderate or worse for most symptoms (most κ < 0.05), with 
investigators reporting fewer AEs than patients across symptoms. Most patients 
believed that the system was easy to use (234 [93.2%]) and useful (230 [93.1%]), 
and investigators thought that the patient-reported AEs were useful (133 
[94.3%]) and accurate (119 [83.2%]).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Participants in multicenter cancer trials are willing 
and able to report their own symptomatic AEs at most clinic visits and report 
more AEs than investigators. This approach may improve the precision of AE 
reporting in cancer trials.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2016.6749
PMCID: PMC5553624
PMID: 28208174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None reported.


47. Laryngoscope. 2016 Feb;126(2):345-51. doi: 10.1002/lary.25396. Epub 2015 May 26.

Robot-assisted sialolithotomy with sialendoscopy for the management of large 
submandibular gland stones.

Razavi C(1), Pascheles C(1), Samara G(2), Marzouk M(3).

Author information:
(1)Stony Brook University School of Medicine, Stony Brook, New York.
(2)Department of Surgery, Division of Otolaryngology, Stony Brook Medicine, 
Stony Brook University School of Medicine, Stony Brook, New York, U.S.A.
(3)Department of Otolaryngology and Communication Sciences, SUNY Upstate Medical 
University, Syracuse, New York.

OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: The objectives of this study were to describe 
robot-assisted sialolithotomy with sialendoscopy (RASS) for the management of 
large palpable hilar submandibular gland (SMG) stones and analyze procedural 
success and lingual nerve damage following RASS in comparison to the combined 
transoral sialendoscopic approach.
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective chart review.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review was performed on patients with large 
palpable hilar SMG stones managed with RASS following institutional review board 
approval. Large stones were defined as ≥5 mm, the upper limit that can be 
removed via sialendoscopy. Twenty-two patients between January 2012 and June 
2014, with mean stone size of 12.3 mm, were identified. Data collected included 
symptoms of recurrence, postoperative lingual nerve function, and patient 
satisfaction at a mean follow-up of 14 months. Procedural success was defined as 
absence of symptom recurrence in conjunction with gland preservation. These 
measures were compared with the combined approach (CA) outcomes reported in the 
English literature.
RESULTS: Procedural success was 100% (22/22) for our cohort. No patients 
reported symptoms of lingual nerve damage at follow-up, whereas four patients 
reported transient lingual nerve paresthesia (mean duration, 2.5 weeks). Mean 
patient satisfaction was 9.9 out of 10. Literature review identified 135 
patients in the CA cohort. Procedural success rate for these patients was 75%, 
and lingual nerve damage was reported in 2% of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates the safety and efficacy of RASS in the 
management of large SMG sialoliths. We attribute this preliminary success of 
RASS to the enhanced visualization, magnification, and technical advantages of 
the procedure.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 4.

© 2015 The American Laryngological, Rhinological and Otological Society, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/lary.25396
PMID: 26010951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Nature. 2022 Sep;609(7929):E13. doi: 10.1038/s41586-022-05287-8.

Publisher Correction: Truncated FGFR2 is a clinically actionable oncogene in 
multiple cancers.

Zingg D(#)(1)(2), Bhin J(#)(1)(2)(3), Yemelyanenko J(#)(1)(2), Kas SM(#)(1)(2), 
Rolfs F(1)(2)(4), Lutz C(1)(2), Lee JK(5), Klarenbeek S(6), Silverman IM(7), 
Annunziato S(1)(2), Chan CS(8)(9), Piersma SR(4), Eijkman T(1)(2), Badoux 
M(1)(2), Gogola E(1)(2), Siteur B(10), Sprengers J(10), de Klein B(1)(2), de 
Goeij-de Haas RR(4), Riedlinger GM(9)(11), Ke H(8)(9), Madison R(5), Drenth 
AP(1)(2), van der Burg E(1)(2), Schut E(1)(2), Henneman L(1)(2)(10), van 
Miltenburg MH(1)(2), Proost N(10), Zhen H(12), Wientjens E(1)(2), de Bruijn 
R(1)(2)(3), de Ruiter JR(1)(2)(3), Boon U(1)(2), de Korte-Grimmerink R(10), van 
Gerwen B(10), Féliz L(13), Abou-Alfa GK(14)(15), Ross JS(5)(16), van de Ven 
M(10), Rottenberg S(1)(17)(18), Cuppen E(2)(19)(20), Chessex AV(21), Ali SM(5), 
Burn TC(7), Jimenez CR(4), Ganesan S(22)(23), Wessels LFA(24)(25), Jonkers 
J(26)(27).

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Pathology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(2)Oncode Institute, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(3)Division of Molecular Carcinogenesis, Netherlands Cancer Institute, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)OncoProteomics Laboratory, Department of Medical Oncology, Cancer Center 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(5)Foundation Medicine, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(6)Experimental Animal Pathology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(7)Incyte Research Institute, Wilmington, DE, USA.
(8)Department of Medicine, Division of Medical Oncology, Rutgers Cancer 
Institute of New Jersey, New Brunswick, NJ, USA.
(9)Department of Medicine and Pharmacology, Rutgers University, Piscataway, NJ, 
USA.
(10)Mouse Clinic for Cancer and Aging, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(11)Department of Pathology, Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey, New 
Brunswick, NJ, USA.
(12)Incyte, Wilmington, DE, USA.
(13)Incyte Biosciences International, Morges, Switzerland.
(14)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
NY, USA.
(15)Department of Medicine, Weill Medical College at Cornell University, New 
York, NY, USA.
(16)Upstate University Hospital, Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(17)Institute of Animal Pathology, Vetsuisse Faculty, University of Bern, Bern, 
Switzerland.
(18)Bern Center for Precision Medicine, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(19)Hartwig Medical Foundation, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(20)Center for Molecular Medicine, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands.
(21)Debiopharm International, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(22)Department of Medicine, Division of Medical Oncology, Rutgers Cancer 
Institute of New Jersey, New Brunswick, NJ, USA. ganesash@cinj.rutgers.edu.
(23)Department of Medicine and Pharmacology, Rutgers University, Piscataway, NJ, 
USA. ganesash@cinj.rutgers.edu.
(24)Oncode Institute, Utrecht, The Netherlands. l.wessels@nki.nl.
(25)Division of Molecular Carcinogenesis, Netherlands Cancer Institute, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. l.wessels@nki.nl.
(26)Division of Molecular Pathology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands. j.jonkers@nki.nl.
(27)Oncode Institute, Utrecht, The Netherlands. j.jonkers@nki.nl.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum for
    Nature. 2022 Aug;608(7923):609-617.

DOI: 10.1038/s41586-022-05287-8
PMCID: PMC9519452
PMID: 36050473


49. Eur Phys J C Part Fields. 2021;81(4):322. doi: 10.1140/epjc/s10052-021-09007-w. 
Epub 2021 Apr 16.

Prospects for beyond the Standard Model physics searches at the Deep Underground 
Neutrino Experiment: DUNE Collaboration.

Abi B(1), Acciarri R(2), Acero MA(3), Adamov G(4), Adams D(5), Adinolfi M(6), 
Ahmad Z(7), Ahmed J(8), Alion T(9), Monsalve SA(10), Alt C(11), Anderson J(12), 
Andreopoulos C(13)(14), Andrews MP(2), Andrianala F(15), Andringa S(16), 
Ankowski A(17), Antonova M(18), Antusch S(19), Aranda-Fernandez A(20), Ariga 
A(21), Arnold LO(22), Arroyave MA(23), Asaadi J(24), Aurisano A(25), Aushev 
V(26), Autiero D(27), Azfar F(1), Back H(28), Back JJ(8), Backhouse C(29), 
Baesso P(6), Bagby L(2), Bajou R(30), Balasubramanian S(31), Baldi P(32), Bambah 
B(33), Barao F(34)(16), Barenboim G(18), Barker GJ(8), Barkhouse W(35), Barnes 
C(36), Barr G(1), Monarca JB(37), Barros N(38)(16), Barrow JL(2)(39), Bashyal 
A(40), Basque V(41), Bay F(42), Alba JLB(43), Beacom JF(44), Bechetoille E(27), 
Behera B(45), Bellantoni L(2), Bellettini G(46), Bellini V(47)(48), Beltramello 
O(10), Belver D(49), Benekos N(10), Neves FB(16), Berger J(50), Berkman S(2), 
Bernardini P(51)(52), Berner RM(21), Berns H(53), Bertolucci S(54)(55), 
Betancourt M(2), Bezawada Y(53), Bhattacharjee M(56), Bhuyan B(56), Biagi S(57), 
Bian J(32), Biassoni M(58), Biery K(2), Bilki B(59)(60), Bishai M(5), Bitadze 
A(41), Blake A(61), Siffert BB(62), Blaszczyk FDM(2), Blazey GC(63), Blucher 
E(64), Boissevain J(65), Bolognesi S(66), Bolton T(67), Bonesini M(58)(68), 
Bongrand M(69), Bonini F(5), Booth A(9), Booth C(70), Bordoni S(10), Borkum 
A(9), Boschi T(71), Bostan N(60), Bour P(72), Boyd SB(8), Boyden D(63), Bracinik 
J(73), Braga D(2), Brailsford D(61), Brandt A(24), Bremer J(10), Brew C(14), 
Brianne E(41), Brice SJ(2), Brizzolari C(58)(68), Bromberg C(74), Brooijmans 
G(22), Brooke J(6), Bross A(2), Brunetti G(75), Buchanan N(45), Budd H(76), 
Caiulo D(27), Calafiura P(77), Calcutt J(74), Calin M(78), Calvez S(45), Calvo 
E(49), Camilleri L(22), Caminata A(79), Campanelli M(29), Caratelli D(2), Carini 
G(5), Carlus B(27), Carniti P(58), Terrazas IC(45), Carranza H(24), Castillo 
A(80), Castromonte C(81), Cattadori C(58), Cavalier F(69), Cavanna F(2), Centro 
S(82), Cerati G(2), Cervelli A(55), Villanueva AC(18), Chalifour M(10), Chang 
C(83), Chardonnet E(30), Chatterjee A(50), Chattopadhyay S(7), Chaves J(84), 
Chen H(5), Chen M(32), Chen Y(21), Cherdack D(85), Chi C(22), Childress S(2), 
Chiriacescu A(78), Cho K(86), Choubey S(87), Christensen A(45), Christian D(2), 
Christodoulou G(10), Church E(28), Clarke P(88), Coan TE(89), Cocco AG(90), 
Coelho JAB(69), Conley E(91), Conrad JM(92), Convery M(17), Corwin L(93), Cotte 
P(66), Cremaldi L(94), Cremonesi L(29), Crespo-Anadón JI(49), Cristaldo E(95), 
Cross R(61), Cuesta C(49), Cui Y(83), Cussans D(6), Dabrowski M(5), da Motta 
H(96), Peres LDS(62), David C(2)(97), David Q(27), Davies GS(94), Davini S(79), 
Dawson J(30), De K(24), De Almeida RM(98), Debbins P(60), De Bonis I(99), 
Decowski MP(100)(42), de Gouvêa A(101), De Holanda PC(102), De Icaza Astiz 
IL(9), Deisting A(103), De Jong P(100)(42), Delbart A(66), Delepine D(37), 
Delgado M(104), Dell'Acqua A(10), De Lurgio P(12), de Mello Neto JRT(62), DeMuth 
DM(105), Dennis S(106), Densham C(14), Deptuch G(2), De Roeck A(10), De Romeri 
V(18), De Vries JJ(106), Dharmapalan R(107), Dias M(108), Diaz F(43), Díaz 
JS(109), Di Domizio S(110)(79), Di Giulio L(10), Ding P(2), Di Noto L(110)(79), 
Distefano C(57), Diurba R(111), Diwan M(5), Djurcic Z(12), Dokania N(112), 
Dolinski MJ(113), Domine L(17), Douglas D(74), Drielsma F(17), Duchesneau D(99), 
Duffy K(2), Dunne P(114), Durkin T(14), Duyang H(115), Dvornikov O(107), Dwyer 
DA(77), Dyshkant AS(63), Eads M(63), Edmunds D(74), Eisch J(116), Emery S(66), 
Ereditato A(21), Escobar CO(2), Sanchez LE(106), Evans JJ(41), Ewart E(109), 
Ezeribe AC(70), Fahey K(2), Falcone A(58)(68), Farnese C(82), Farzan Y(117), 
Felix J(37), Fernandez-Martinez E(118), Fernandez Menendez P(18), Ferraro 
F(110)(79), Fields L(2), Filkins A(119), Filthaut F(42)(120), Fitzpatrick 
RS(36), Flanagan W(121), Fleming B(31), Flight R(76), Fowler J(91), Fox W(109), 
Franc J(72), Francis K(63), Franco D(31), Freeman J(2), Freestone J(41), Fried 
J(5), Friedland A(17), Fuess S(2), Furic I(122), Furmanski AP(111), Gago A(43), 
Gallagher H(123), Gallego-Ros A(49), Gallice N(124)(125), Galymov V(27), 
Gamberini E(10), Gamble T(70), Gandhi R(87), Gandrajula R(74), Gao S(5), 
Garcia-Gamez D(126), García-Peris MÁ(18), Gardiner S(2), Gastler D(127), Ge 
G(22), Gelli B(102), Gendotti A(11), Gent S(128), Ghorbani-Moghaddam Z(79), 
Gibin D(82), Gil-Botella I(49), Girerd C(27), Giri AK(129), Gnani D(77), Gogota 
O(26), Gold M(130), Gollapinni S(65), Gollwitzer K(2), Gomes RA(131), Bermeo 
LVG(80), Fajardo LSG(80), Gonnella F(73), Gonzalez-Cuevas JA(95), Goodman 
MC(12), Goodwin O(41), Goswami S(132), Gotti C(58), Goudzovski E(73), Grace 
C(77), Graham M(17), Gramellini E(31), Gran R(133), Granados E(37), Grant 
A(134), Grant C(127), Gratieri D(98), Green P(41), Green S(106), Greenler 
L(135), Greenwood M(40), Greer J(6), Griffith WC(9), Groh M(109), Grudzinski 
J(12), Grzelak K(136), Gu W(5), Guarino V(12), Guenette R(137), Guglielmi A(75), 
Guo B(115), Guthikonda KK(138), Gutierrez R(104), Guzowski P(41), Guzzo MM(102), 
Gwon S(139), Habig A(133), Hackenburg A(31), Hadavand H(24), Haenni R(21), Hahn 
A(2), Haigh J(8), Haiston J(93), Hamernik T(2), Hamilton P(114), Han J(50), 
Harder K(14), Harris DA(2)(97), Hartnell J(9), Hasegawa T(140), Hatcher R(2), 
Hazen E(127), Heavey A(2), Heeger KM(31), Heise J(141), Hennessy K(13), Henry 
S(76), Morquecho MAH(37), Herner K(2), Hertel L(32), Hesam AS(10), Hewes J(25), 
Higuera A(85), Hill T(142), Hillier SJ(73), Himmel A(2), Hoff J(2), Hohl C(19), 
Holin A(29), Hoppe E(28), Horton-Smith GA(67), Hostert M(71), Hourlier A(92), 
Howard B(2), Howell R(76), Huang J(143), Huang J(53), Hugon J(144), Iles G(114), 
Ilic N(145), Iliescu AM(55), Illingworth R(2), Ioannisian A(146), Itay R(17), 
Izmaylov A(18), James E(2), Jargowsky B(32), Jediny F(72), Jesùs-Valls C(147), 
Ji X(5), Jiang L(148), Jiménez S(49), Jipa A(78), Joglekar A(83), Johnson C(45), 
Johnson R(25), Jones B(24), Jones S(29), Jung CK(112), Junk T(2), Jwa Y(22), 
Kabirnezhad M(1), Kaboth A(14), Kadenko I(26), Kamiya F(149), Karagiorgi G(22), 
Karcher A(77), Karolak M(66), Karyotakis Y(99), Kasai S(150), Kasetti SP(144), 
Kashur L(45), Kazaryan N(146), Kearns E(127), Keener P(84), Kelly KJ(2), Kemp 
E(102), Ketchum W(2), Kettell SH(5), Khabibullin M(151), Khotjantsev A(151), 
Khvedelidze A(4), Kim D(10), King B(2), Kirby B(5), Kirby M(2), Klein J(84), 
Koehler K(135), Koerner LW(85), Kohn S(152)(77), Koller PP(21), Kordosky M(119), 
Kosc T(27), Kose U(10), Kostelecký VA(109), Kothekar K(6), Krennrich F(116), 
Kreslo I(21), Kudenko Y(151), Kudryavtsev VA(70), Kulagin S(151), Kumar J(107), 
Kumar R(153), Kuruppu C(115), Kus V(72), Kutter T(144), Lambert A(77), Lande 
K(84), Lane CE(113), Lang K(143), Langford T(31), Lasorak P(9), Last D(84), 
Lastoria C(49), Laundrie A(135), Lawrence A(77), Lazanu I(78), LaZur R(45), Le 
T(123), Learned J(107), LeBrun P(27), Miotto GL(10), Lehnert R(109), de Oliveira 
MAL(149), Leitner M(77), Leyton M(147), Li L(32), Li S(5), Li SW(17), Li T(88), 
Li Y(5), Liao H(67), Lin CS(77), Lin S(144), Lister A(135), Littlejohn BR(154), 
Liu J(32), Lockwitz S(2), Loew T(77), Lokajicek M(155), Lomidze I(4), Long 
K(114), Loo K(156), Lorca D(21), Lord T(8), LoSecco JM(157), Louis WC(65), Luk 
KB(152)(77), Luo X(158), Lurkin N(73), Lux T(147), Luzio VP(149), MacFarland 
D(17), Machado AA(102), Machado P(2), Macias CT(109), Macier JR(2), Maddalena 
A(159), Madigan P(152)(77), Magill S(12), Mahn K(74), Maio A(38)(16), Maloney 
JA(160), Mandrioli G(55), Maneira J(38)(16), Manenti L(29), Manly S(76), Mann 
A(123), Manolopoulos K(14), Plata MM(109), Marchionni A(2), Marciano W(5), 
Marfatia D(107), Mariani C(148), Maricic J(107), Marinho F(161), Marino AD(162), 
Marshak M(111), Marshall C(77), Marshall J(8), Marteau J(27), Martin-Albo J(18), 
Martinez N(67), Caicedo DAM(93), Martynenko S(112), Mason K(123), Mastbaum 
A(163), Masud M(18), Matsuno S(107), Matthews J(144), Mauger C(84), Mauri 
N(54)(55), Mavrokoridis K(13), Mazza R(58), Mazzacane A(2), Mazzucato E(66), 
McCluskey E(2), McConkey N(41), McFarland KS(76), McGrew C(112), McNab A(41), 
Mefodiev A(151), Mehta P(164), Melas P(165), Mellinato M(58)(68), Mena O(18), 
Menary S(97), Mendez H(166), Menegolli A(167)(168), Meng G(75), Messier MD(109), 
Metcalf W(144), Mewes M(109), Meyer H(169), Miao T(2), Michna G(128), Miedema 
T(42)(120), Migenda J(70), Milincic R(107), Miller W(111), Mills J(123), Milne 
C(142), Mineev O(151), Miranda OG(170), Miryala S(5), Mishra CS(2), Mishra 
SR(115), Mislivec A(111), Mladenov D(10), Mocioiu I(171), Moffat K(71), Moggi 
N(54)(55), Mohanta R(33), Mohayai TA(2), Mokhov N(2), Molina J(95), Bueno 
LM(11), Montanari A(55), Montanari C(167)(168), Montanari D(2), Zetina LMM(170), 
Moon J(92), Mooney M(45), Moor A(106), Moreno D(104), Morgan B(8), Morris C(85), 
Mossey C(2), Motuk E(29), Moura CA(149), Mousseau J(36), Mu W(2), Mualem L(172), 
Mueller J(45), Muether M(169), Mufson S(109), Muheim F(88), Muir A(134), 
Mulhearn M(53), Muramatsu H(111), Murphy S(11), Musser J(109), Nachtman J(60), 
Nagu S(173), Nalbandyan M(146), Nandakumar R(14), Naples D(50), Narita S(174), 
Navas-Nicolás D(49), Nayak N(32), Nebot-Guinot M(88), Necib L(172), Negishi 
K(174), Nelson JK(119), Nesbit J(135), Nessi M(10), Newbold D(14), Newcomer 
M(84), Newhart D(2), Nichol R(29), Niner E(2), Nishimura K(107), Norman A(2), 
Norrick A(2), Northrop R(64), Novella P(18), Nowak JA(61), Oberling M(12), Del 
Campo AO(71), Olivier A(76), Onel Y(60), Onishchuk Y(26), Ott J(32), Pagani 
L(53), Pakvasa S(107), Palamara O(2), Palestini S(10), Paley JM(2), Pallavicini 
M(110)(79), Palomares C(49), Pantic E(53), Paolone V(50), Papadimitriou V(2), 
Papaleo R(57), Papanestis A(14), Paramesvaran S(6), Park JC(175), Parke S(2), 
Parsa Z(5), Parvu M(78), Pascoli S(71), Pasqualini L(54)(55), Pasternak J(114), 
Pater J(41), Patrick C(29), Patrizii L(55), Patterson RB(172), Patton SJ(77), 
Patzak T(30), Paudel A(67), Paulos B(135), Paulucci L(149), Pavlovic Z(2), 
Pawloski G(111), Payne D(13), Pec V(70), Peeters SJM(9), Penichot Y(66), 
Pennacchio E(27), Penzo A(60), Peres OLG(102), Perry J(88), Pershey D(91), 
Pessina G(58), Petrillo G(17), Petta C(47)(48), Petti R(115), Piastra F(21), 
Pickering L(74), Pietropaolo F(10)(75), Pillow J(8), Pinzino J(145), Plunkett 
R(2), Poling R(111), Pons X(10), Poonthottathil N(116), Pordes S(2), Potekhin 
M(5), Potenza R(47)(48), Potukuchi BVKS(176), Pozimski J(114), Pozzato 
M(54)(55), Prakash S(102), Prakash T(77), Prince S(137), Prior G(16), Pugnere 
D(27), Qi K(112), Qian X(5), Raaf JL(2), Raboanary R(15), Radeka V(5), 
Rademacker J(6), Radics B(11), Rafique A(12), Raguzin E(5), Rai M(8), 
Rajaoalisoa M(25), Rakhno I(2), Rakotondramanana HT(15), Rakotondravohitra 
L(15), Ramachers YA(8), Rameika R(2), Delgado MAR(37), Ramson B(2), Rappoldi 
A(167)(168), Raselli G(167)(168), Ratoff P(61), Ravat S(10), Razafinime H(15), 
Real JS(177), Rebel B(2)(135), Redondo D(49), Reggiani-Guzzo M(102), Rehak 
T(113), Reichenbacher J(93), Reitzner SD(2), Renshaw A(85), Rescia S(5), Resnati 
F(10), Reynolds A(1), Riccobene G(57), Rice LCJ(50), Rielage K(65), Rigaut 
Y(11), Rivera D(84), Rochester L(17), Roda M(13), Rodrigues P(1), Alonso 
MJR(10), Rondon JR(93), Roeth AJ(91), Rogers H(45), Rosauro-Alcaraz S(118), 
Rossella M(167)(168), Rout J(164), Roy S(87), Rubbia A(11), Rubbia C(178), 
Russell B(77), Russell J(17), Ruterbories D(76), Saakyan R(29), Sacerdoti S(30), 
Safford T(74), Sahu N(129), Sala P(10)(124), Samios N(5), Sanchez MC(116), 
Sanders DA(94), Sankey D(14), Santana S(166), Santos-Maldonado M(166), Saoulidou 
N(165), Sapienza P(57), Sarasty C(25), Sarcevic I(179), Savage G(2), Savinov 
V(50), Scaramelli A(167), Scarff A(70), Scarpelli A(5), Schaffer T(133), 
Schellman H(2)(40), Schlabach P(2), Schmitz D(64), Scholberg K(91), Schukraft 
A(2), Segreto E(102), Sensenig J(84), Seong I(32), Sergi A(73), Sergiampietri 
F(112), Sgalaberna D(11), Shaevitz MH(22), Shafaq S(164), Shamma M(83), Sharma 
HR(176), Sharma R(5), Shaw T(2), Shepherd-Themistocleous C(14), Shin S(180), 
Shooltz D(74), Shrock R(112), Simard L(69), Simos N(5), Sinclair J(21), Sinev 
G(91), Singh J(173), Singh J(173), Singh V(181)(182), Sipos R(10), Sippach 
FW(22), Sirri G(55), Sitraka A(93), Siyeon K(139), Smargianaki D(112), Smith 
A(91), Smith A(106), Smith E(109), Smith P(109), Smolik J(72), Smy M(32), Snopok 
P(154), Nunes MS(102), Sobel H(32), Soderberg M(183), Salinas CJS(81), 
Söldner-Rembold S(41), Solomey N(169), Solovov V(16), Sondheim WE(65), Sorel 
M(18), Soto-Oton J(49), Sousa A(25), Soustruznik K(184), Spagliardi F(1), Spanu 
M(5), Spitz J(36), Spooner NJC(70), Spurgeon K(183), Staley R(73), Stancari 
M(2), Stanco L(75), Steiner HM(77), Stewart J(5), Stillwell B(64), Stock J(93), 
Stocker F(10), Stocks D(185), Stokes T(144), Strait M(111), Strauss T(2), 
Striganov S(2), Stuart A(20), Summers D(94), Surdo A(51), Susic V(19), Suter 
L(2), Sutera CM(47)(48), Svoboda R(53), Szczerbinska B(186), Szelc AM(41), 
Talaga R(12), Tanaka HA(17), Oregui BT(143), Tapper A(114), Tariq S(2), Tatar 
E(142), Tayloe R(109), Teklu AM(112), Tenti M(55), Terao K(17), Ternes CA(18), 
Terranova F(58)(68), Testera G(79), Thea A(14), Thompson JL(70), Thorn C(5), 
Timm SC(2), Todd J(25), Tonazzo A(30), Torti M(58)(68), Tortola M(18), Tortorici 
F(47)(48), Totani D(2), Toups M(2), Touramanis C(13), Trevor J(172), Trzaska 
WH(156), Tsai YT(17), Tsamalaidze Z(4), Tsang KV(17), Tsverava N(4), Tufanli 
S(10), Tull C(77), Tyley E(70), Tzanov M(144), Uchida MA(106), Urheim J(109), 
Usher T(17), Vagins MR(187), Vahle P(119), Valdiviesso GA(188), Valencia E(119), 
Vallari Z(172), Valle JWF(18), Vallecorsa S(10), Berg RV(84), de Water RGV(65), 
Forero DV(102), Varanini F(75), Vargas D(147), Varner G(107), Vasel J(109), 
Vasseur G(66), Vaziri K(2), Ventura S(75), Verdugo A(49), Vergani S(106), 
Vermeulen MA(42), Verzocchi M(2), de Souza HV(102), Vignoli C(159), Vilela 
C(112), Viren B(5), Vrba T(72), Wachala T(189), Waldron AV(114), Wallbank M(25), 
Wang H(190), Wang J(53), Wang Y(190), Wang Y(112), Warburton K(116), Warner 
D(45), Wascko M(114), Waters D(29), Watson A(73), Weatherly P(113), Weber 
A(1)(14), Weber M(21), Wei H(5), Weinstein A(116), Wenman D(135), Wetstein 
M(116), While MR(93), White A(24), Whitehead LH(106), Whittington D(183), 
Wilking MJ(112), Wilkinson C(21), Williams Z(24), Wilson F(14), Wilson RJ(45), 
Wolcott J(123), Wongjirad T(123), Wood K(112), Wood L(28), Worcester E(5), 
Worcester M(5), Wret C(76), Wu W(2), Wu W(32), Xiao Y(32), Yang G(112), Yang 
T(2), Yershov N(151), Yonehara K(2), Young T(35), Yu B(5), Yu J(24), Zaki R(97), 
Zalesak J(155), Zambelli L(99), Zamorano B(126), Zani A(124), Zazueta L(119), 
Zeller GP(2), Zennamo J(2), Zeug K(135), Zhang C(5), Zhao M(5), Zhao Y(191), 
Zhivun E(5), Zhu G(44), Zimmerman ED(162), Zito M(66), Zucchelli S(54)(55), 
Zuklin J(155), Zutshi V(63), Zwaska R(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Oxford, Oxford, OX1 3RH UK.
(2)Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, Batavia, IL 60510 USA.
(3)Universidad del Atlántico, Barranquilla, Atlántico Colombia.
(4)Georgian Technical University, Tbilisi, Georgia.
(5)Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, NY 11973 USA.
(6)University of Bristol, Bristol, BS8 1TL UK.
(7)Variable Energy Cyclotron Centre, Kolkata, West Bengal 700 064 India.
(8)University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL UK.
(9)University of Sussex, Brighton, BN1 9RH UK.
(10)CERN, The European Organization for Nuclear Research, 1211 Meyrin, 
Switzerland.
(11)ETH Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(12)Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, IL 60439 USA.
(13)University of Liverpool, Liverpool, L69 7ZE UK.
(14)STFC Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Didcot, OX11 0QX UK.
(15)University of Antananarivo, 101 Antananarivo, Madagascar.
(16)Laboratório de Instrumentação e Física Experimental de Partículas, 1649-003, 
Lisbon and, 3004-516 Coimbra, Portugal.
(17)SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, Menlo Park, CA 94025 USA.
(18)Instituto de Fisica Corpuscular, 46980 Paterna, Valencia Spain.
(19)University of Basel, 4056 Basel, Switzerland.
(20)Universidad de Colima, Colima, Mexico.
(21)University of Bern, 3012 Bern, Switzerland.
(22)Columbia University, New York, NY 10027 USA.
(23)Universidad EIA, Envigado, Antioquia Colombia.
(24)University of Texas at Arlington, Arlington, TX 76019 USA.
(25)University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH 45221 USA.
(26)Kyiv National University, Kiev, 01601 Ukraine.
(27)Institut de Physique des 2 Infinis de Lyon, 69622 Villeurbanne, France.
(28)Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, WA 99352 USA.
(29)University College London, London, WC1E 6BT UK.
(30)Université de Paris, CNRS, Astroparticule et Cosmologie, 75006 Paris, 
France.
(31)Yale University, New Haven, CT 06520 USA.
(32)University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA 92697 USA.
(33)University of Hyderabad, Gachibowli, Hyderabad, 500 046 India.
(34)Instituto Superior Técnico-IST, Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal.
(35)University of North Dakota, Grand Forks, ND 58202-8357 USA.
(36)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA.
(37)Universidad de Guanajuato, C.P. 37000 Guanajuato, Mexico.
(38)Faculdade de Ciências da Universidade de Lisboa-FCUL, 1749-016 Lisbon, 
Portugal.
(39)University of Tennessee at Knoxville, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA.
(40)Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA.
(41)University of Manchester, Manchester, M13 9PL UK.
(42)Nikhef National Institute of Subatomic Physics, 1098 XG Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(43)Pontificia Universidad Católica del Perú, Lima, Peru.
(44)Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210 USA.
(45)Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 80523 USA.
(46)Università di Pisa, 56127 Pisa, Italy.
(47)Università di Catania, 2, 95131 Catania, Italy.
(48)Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare Sezione di Catania, 95123 Catania, 
Italy.
(49)CIEMAT, Centro de Investigaciones Energéticas, Medioambientales y 
Tecnológicas, 28040 Madrid, Spain.
(50)University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15260 USA.
(51)Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare Sezione di Lecce, 73100 Lecce, Italy.
(52)Università del Salento, 73100 Lecce, Italy.
(53)University of California Davis, Davis, CA 95616 USA.
(54)Università del Bologna, 40127 Bologna, Italy.
(55)Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare Sezione di Bologna, 40127 Bologna, BO 
Italy.
(56)Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati, Guwahati, 781 039 India.
(57)Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare Laboratori Nazionali del Sud, 95123 
Catania, Italy.
(58)Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare Sezione di Milano Bicocca, 3, 20126 
Milan, Italy.
(59)Beykent University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(60)University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242 USA.
(61)Lancaster University, Lancaster, LA1 4YB UK.
(62)Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ 21941-901 Brazil.
(63)Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, IL 60115 USA.
(64)University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637 USA.
(65)Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM 87545 USA.
(66)CEA/Saclay, IRFU Institut de Recherche sur les Lois Fondamentales de 
l'Univers, 91191 Gif-sur-Yvette Cedex, France.
(67)Kansas State University, Manhattan, KS 66506 USA.
(68)Università del Milano-Bicocca, 20126 Milan, Italy.
(69)Laboratoire de l'Accélérateur Linéaire, 91440 Orsay, France.
(70)University of Sheffield, Sheffield, S3 7RH UK.
(71)Durham University, Durham, DH1 3LE UK.
(72)Czech Technical University, 115 19 Prague 1, Czech Republic.
(73)University of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TT UK.
(74)Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI 48824 USA.
(75)Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare Sezione di Padova, 35131 Padua, Italy.
(76)University of Rochester, Rochester, NY 14627 USA.
(77)Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA 94720 USA.
(78)University of Bucharest, Bucharest, Romania.
(79)Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare Sezione di Genova, 16146 Genoa, GE 
Italy.
(80)Universidad Sergio Arboleda, Bogotá, 11022 Colombia.
(81)Universidad Nacional de Ingeniería, Lima 25, Peru.
(82)Universtà degli Studi di Padova, 35131 Padua, Italy.
(83)University of California Riverside, Riverside, CA 92521 USA.
(84)University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA.
(85)University of Houston, Houston, TX 77204 USA.
(86)Korea Institute of Science and Technology Information, Daejeon, 34141 South 
Korea.
(87)Harish-Chandra Research Institute, Jhunsi, Allahabad, 211 019 India.
(88)University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, EH8 9YL UK.
(89)Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX 75275 USA.
(90)Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare Sezione di Napoli, 80126 Naples, 
Italy.
(91)Duke University, Durham, NC 27708 USA.
(92)Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139 USA.
(93)South Dakota School of Mines and Technology, Rapid City, SD 57701 USA.
(94)University of Mississippi, University, MS 38677 USA.
(95)Universidad Nacional de Asunción, San Lorenzo, Paraguay.
(96)Centro Brasileiro de Pesquisas Físicas, Rio de Janeiro, RJ 22290-180 Brazil.
(97)York University, Toronto, M3J 1P3 Canada.
(98)Fluminense Federal University, 9 Icaraí, Niterói, RJ 24220-900 Brazil.
(99)Laboratoire d'Annecy-le-Vieux de Physique des Particules, CNRS/IN2P3 and 
Université Savoie Mont Blanc, 74941 Annecy-le-Vieux, France.
(100)University of Amsterdam, 1098 XG Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(101)Northwestern University, Evanston, IL 60208 USA.
(102)Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Campinas, SP 13083-970 Brazil.
(103)Royal Holloway College, London, TW20 0EX UK.
(104)Universidad Antonio Nariño, Bogotá, Colombia.
(105)Valley City State University, Valley City, ND 58072 USA.
(106)University of Cambridge, Cambridge, CB3 0HE UK.
(107)University of Hawaii, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA.
(108)Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São Paulo, 09913-030 Brazil.
(109)Indiana University, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA.
(110)Università degli Studi di Genova, Genoa, Italy.
(111)University of Minnesota Twin Cities, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA.
(112)Stony Brook University, SUNY, Stony Brook, NY 11794 USA.
(113)Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA.
(114)Imperial College of Science Technology and Medicine, London, SW7 2BZ UK.
(115)University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208 USA.
(116)Iowa State University, Ames, IA 50011 USA.
(117)Institute for Research in Fundamental Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(118)Madrid Autonoma University and IFT UAM/CSIC, 28049 Madrid, Spain.
(119)William and Mary, Williamsburg, VA 23187 USA.
(120)Radboud University, 6525 AJ Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(121)University of Dallas, Irving, TX 75062-4736 USA.
(122)University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611-8440 USA.
(123)Tufts University, Medford, MA 02155 USA.
(124)Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare Sezione di Milano, 20133 Milan, 
Italy.
(125)Università degli Studi di Milano, 20133 Milan, Italy.
(126)University of Granada and CAFPE, 18002 Granada, Spain.
(127)Boston University, Boston, MA 02215 USA.
(128)South Dakota State University, Brookings, SD 57007 USA.
(129)Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad, Hyderabad, 502285 India.
(130)University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM 87131 USA.
(131)Universidade Federal de Goias, Goiânia, GO 74690-900 Brazil.
(132)Physical Research Laboratory, Ahmedabad, 380 009 India.
(133)University of Minnesota Duluth, Duluth, MN 55812 USA.
(134)Daresbury Laboratory, Cheshire, WA4 4AD UK.
(135)University of Wisconsin Madison, Madison, WI 53706 USA.
(136)University of Warsaw, 00-927 Warsaw, Poland.
(137)Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138 USA.
(138)K L University, Vaddeswaram, Andhra Pradesh 522502 India.
(139)Chung-Ang University, Seoul, 06974 South Korea.
(140)High Energy Accelerator Research Organization (KEK), Tsukuba, Ibaraki 
305-0801 Japan.
(141)Sanford Underground Research Facility, Lead, SD 57754 USA.
(142)Idaho State University, Pocatello, ID 83209 USA.
(143)University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712 USA.
(144)Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA.
(145)University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M5S 1A1 Canada.
(146)Yerevan Institute for Theoretical Physics and Modeling, 0036 Yerevan, 
Armenia.
(147)Institut de Fìsica d'Altes Energies, Barcelona, Spain.
(148)Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, VA 24060 USA.
(149)Universidade Federal do ABC, Santo André, SP 09210-580 Brazil.
(150)National Institute of Technology, Kure College, Hiroshima, 737-8506 Japan.
(151)Institute for Nuclear Research of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, 
117312 Russia.
(152)University of California Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720 USA.
(153)Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, 141004 India.
(154)Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago, IL 60616 USA.
(155)Institute of Physics, Czech Academy of Sciences, 182 00 Prague 8, Czech 
Republic.
(156)University of Jyvaskyla, 40014 Jyväskylä, Finland.
(157)University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA.
(158)University of California Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, CA 93106 USA.
(159)Laboratori Nazionali del Gran Sasso, L'Aquila, AQ Italy.
(160)Dakota State University, Madison, SD 57042 USA.
(161)Universidade Federal de São Carlos, Araras, SP 13604-900 Brazil.
(162)University of Colorado Boulder, Boulder, CO 80309 USA.
(163)Rutgers University, Piscataway, NJ 08854 USA.
(164)Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, 110067 India.
(165)University of Athens, 157 84 Zografou, Greece.
(166)University of Puerto Rico, Mayagüez, PR 00681 USA.
(167)Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare Sezione di Pavia, 27100 Pavia, Italy.
(168)Università degli Studi di Pavia, 27100 Pavia, PV Italy.
(169)Wichita State University, Wichita, KS 67260 USA.
(170)Centro de Investigación y de Estudios Avanzados del Instituto Politécnico 
Nacional (Cinvestav), Mexico City, Mexico.
(171)Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA 16802 USA.
(172)California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125 USA.
(173)University of Lucknow, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226007 India.
(174)Iwate University, Morioka, Iwate 020-8551 Japan.
(175)Chungnam National University, Daejeon, 34134 South Korea.
(176)University of Jammu, Jammu, 180006 India.
(177)University Grenoble Alpes, CNRS, Grenoble INP, LPSC-IN2P3, 38000 Grenoble, 
France.
(178)Gran Sasso Science Institute, L'Aquila, Italy.
(179)University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA.
(180)Jeonbuk National University, Jeonju, Jeonrabuk-do 54896 South Korea.
(181)Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi, 221 005 India.
(182)Central University of South Bihar, Gaya, 824236 India.
(183)Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY 13244 USA.
(184)Institute of Particle and Nuclear Physics of the Faculty of Mathematics and 
Physics of the Charles University, 180 00 Prague 8, Czech Republic.
(185)Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305 USA.
(186)Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi, Corpus Christi, TX 78412 USA.
(187)Kavli Institute for the Physics and Mathematics of the Universe, Kashiwa, 
Chiba 277-8583 Japan.
(188)Universidade Federal de Alfenas, Poços de Caldas, MG 37715-400 Brazil.
(189)H. Niewodniczański Institute of Nuclear Physics, Polish Academy of 
Sciences, Cracow, Poland.
(190)University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA 90095 USA.
(191)University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT 84112 USA.

The Deep Underground Neutrino Experiment (DUNE) will be a powerful tool for a 
variety of physics topics. The high-intensity proton beams provide a large 
neutrino flux, sampled by a near detector system consisting of a combination of 
capable precision detectors, and by the massive far detector system located deep 
underground. This configuration sets up DUNE as a machine for discovery, as it 
enables opportunities not only to perform precision neutrino measurements that 
may uncover deviations from the present three-flavor mixing paradigm, but also 
to discover new particles and unveil new interactions and symmetries beyond 
those predicted in the Standard Model (SM). Of the many potential beyond the 
Standard Model (BSM) topics DUNE will probe, this paper presents a selection of 
studies quantifying DUNE's sensitivities to sterile neutrino mixing, heavy 
neutral leptons, non-standard interactions, CPT symmetry violation, Lorentz 
invariance violation, neutrino trident production, dark matter from both beam 
induced and cosmogenic sources, baryon number violation, and other new physics 
topics that complement those at high-energy colliders and significantly extend 
the present reach.

© The Author(s) 2021.

DOI: 10.1140/epjc/s10052-021-09007-w
PMCID: PMC8550327
PMID: 34720713


50. Sci Rep. 2017 Oct 31;7(1):14436. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-14626-z.

Nature of collective decision-making by simple yes/no decision units.

Hasegawa E(1), Mizumoto N(2), Kobayashi K(2)(3), Dobata S(2), Yoshimura 
J(4)(5)(6), Watanabe S(7), Murakami Y(8), Matsuura K(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Animal Ecology, Department of Ecology and Systematics, Graduate 
School of Agriculture, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, 060-8589, Japan. 
ehase@res.agr.hokudai.ac.jp.
(2)Laboratory of Insect Ecology, Graduate School of Agriculture, Kyoto 
University, Kyoto, 606-8502, Japan.
(3)Hokkaido Forest Research Station, Field Science Education and Research 
Center, Kyoto University, 553 Tawa, Shibecha-cho, Kawakami-gun, Hokkaido, 
088-2339, Japan.
(4)Graduate School of Science and Technology and Department of Mathematical and 
Systems Engineering, Shizuoka University, 3-5-1 Johoku, Naka-ku, Hamamatsu, 
432-8561, Japan.
(5)Marine Biosystems Research Center, Chiba University, Uchiura, Kamogawa, 
Chiba, 299-5502, Japan.
(6)Department of Environmental and Forest Biology, State University of New York 
College of Environmental Science and Forestry, Syracuse, NY, 13210, USA.
(7)Laboratory of Animal Ecology, Department of Ecology and Systematics, Graduate 
School of Agriculture, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, 060-8589, Japan.
(8)Graduate School of Medicine, Department of Neuropharmacology, Hokkaido 
University, Sapporo, 060-8638, Japan.

The study of collective decision-making spans various fields such as brain and 
behavioural sciences, economics, management sciences, and artificial 
intelligence. Despite these interdisciplinary applications, little is known 
regarding how a group of simple 'yes/no' units, such as neurons in the brain, 
can select the best option among multiple options. One prerequisite for 
achieving such correct choices by the brain is correct evaluation of relative 
option quality, which enables a collective decision maker to efficiently choose 
the best option. Here, we applied a sensory discrimination mechanism using 
yes/no units with differential thresholds to a model for making a collective 
choice among multiple options. The performance corresponding to the correct 
choice was shown to be affected by various parameters. High performance can be 
achieved by tuning the threshold distribution with the options' quality 
distribution. The number of yes/no units allocated to each option and its 
variability profoundly affects performance. When this variability is large, a 
quorum decision becomes superior to a majority decision under some conditions. 
The general features of this collective decision-making by a group of simple 
yes/no units revealed in this study suggest that this mechanism may be useful in 
applications across various fields.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-14626-z
PMCID: PMC5663756
PMID: 29089551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


51. Adv Sci (Weinh). 2019 Jul 31;6(18):1901441. doi: 10.1002/advs.201901441. 
eCollection 2019 Sep 18.

Perturbed Microbial Ecology in Myasthenia Gravis: Evidence from the Gut 
Microbiome and Fecal Metabolome.

Zheng P(1)(2)(3), Li Y(1)(2)(3), Wu J(4), Zhang H(1)(2)(3), Huang Y(1)(2)(3), 
Tan X(1)(2)(3), Pan J(4), Duan J(4), Liang W(4), Yin B(4), Deng F(5), Perry 
SW(6), Wong ML(6), Licinio J(6), Wei H(7), Yu G(1), Xie P(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University Chongqing 400016 China.
(2)Institute of Neuroscience and the Collaborative Innovation Center for Brain 
Science Chongqing Medical University Chongqing 400016 China.
(3)NHC Key Laboratory of Diagnosis and Treatment on Brain Function and Disease 
Chongqing 400016 China.
(4)The M.O.E. Key Laboratory of Laboratory Medical Diagnostics the College of 
Laboratory Medicine Chongqing Medical University Chongqing 400016 China.
(5)Social Medicine and Health Management Chongqing Medical University Chongqing 
400016 China.
(6)Department of Psychiatry College of Medicine SUNY Upstate Medical University 
Syracuse NY 13210 USA.
(7)Precision Medicine Institute The First Affiliated Hospital Sun Yat-sen 
University Guangzhou Guangdong 510080 China.

Erratum in
    Adv Sci (Weinh). 2020 May 20;7(10):2001296.

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a devastating acquired autoimmune disease. Emerging 
evidence indicates that the gut microbiome plays a key role in maintaining 
immune system homeostasis. This work reports that MG is characterized by 
decreased α-phylogenetic diversity, and significantly disturbed gut microbiome 
and fecal metabolome. The altered gut microbial composition is associated with 
fecal metabolome changes, with 38.75% of altered bacterial operational taxonomic 
units showing significant correlations with a range of metabolite biomarkers. 
Some microbes are particularly linked with MG severity. Moreover, a combination 
of microbial makers and their correlated metabolites enable discriminating MG 
from healthy controls (HCs) with 100% accuracy. To investigate whether disturbed 
gut mcirobiome might contribute to the onset of MG, germ-free (GF) mice are 
initially colonized with MG microbiota (MMb) or healthy microbiota (HMb), and 
then immunized in a classic mouse model of MG. The MMb mice demonstrate 
substantially impaired locomotion ability compared with the HMb mice. This 
effect could be reversed by cocolonizing GF mice with both MMb and HMb. The MMb 
mice also exhibit similar disturbances of fecal metabolic pathways as found in 
MG. Together these data demonstrate disturbances in microbiome composition and 
activity that are likely to be relevant to the pathogenesis of MG.

DOI: 10.1002/advs.201901441
PMCID: PMC6755540
PMID: 31559142

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


52. World J Biol Psychiatry. 2017 Jun;18(4):308-321. doi: 
10.3109/15622975.2016.1173724. Epub 2016 May 12.

Testing differential susceptibility: Plasticity genes, the social environment, 
and their interplay in adolescent response inhibition.

Richards JS(1)(2), Arias Vásquez A(3)(4), van Rooij D(1), van der Meer D(5), 
Franke B(3)(4), Hoekstra PJ(5), Heslenfeld DJ(6), Oosterlaan J(6), Faraone 
SV(7), Hartman CA(5), Buitelaar JK(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Cognitive Neuroscience , Donders Institute for Brain, 
Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University Medical Center , Nijmegen , The 
Netherlands.
(2)b Karakter Child and Adolescent Psychiatry University Centre , Nijmegen , The 
Netherlands.
(3)c Department of Human Genetics , Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and 
Behaviour, Radboud University Medical Center , Nijmegen , The Netherlands.
(4)d Department of Psychiatry , Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and 
Behaviour, Radboud University Medical Center , Nijmegen , The Netherlands.
(5)e Department of Psychiatry , University of Groningen, University Medical 
Center Groningen , The Netherlands.
(6)f Department of Clinical Neuropsychology , VU University Amsterdam , 
Amsterdam , The Netherlands.
(7)g SUNY Upstate Medical University Center, Departments of Psychiatry and of 
Neuroscience and Physiology, Syracuse , USA and the K.G. Jebsen Centre for 
Research on Neuropsychiatric Disorders, University of Bergen , Bergen , Norway.

OBJECTIVES: Impaired inhibitory control is a key feature of 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). We investigated 
gene-environment interaction (GxE) as a possible contributing factor to response 
inhibition variation in context of the differential susceptibility theory. This 
states individuals carrying plasticity gene variants will be more disadvantaged 
in negative, but more advantaged in positive environments.
METHODS: Behavioural and neural measures of response inhibition were assessed 
during a Stop-signal task in participants with (N = 197) and without (N = 295) 
ADHD, from N = 278 families (age M = 17.18, SD =3.65). We examined GxE between 
candidate plasticity genes (DAT1, 5-HTT, DRD4) and social environments (maternal 
expressed emotion, peer affiliation).
RESULTS: A DRD4 × Positive peer affiliation interaction was found on the right 
fusiform gyrus (rFG) activation during successful inhibition. Further, 5-HTT 
short allele carriers showed increased rFG activation during failed inhibitions. 
Maternal warmth and positive peer affiliation were positively associated with 
right inferior frontal cortex activation during successful inhibition. Deviant 
peer affiliation was positively related to the error rate.
CONCLUSIONS: While a pattern of differential genetic susceptibility was found, 
more clarity on the role of the FG during response inhibition is warranted 
before firm conclusions can be made. Positive and negative social environments 
were related to inhibitory control. This extends previous research emphasizing 
adverse environments.

DOI: 10.3109/15622975.2016.1173724
PMCID: PMC5435559
PMID: 27170266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Statements of Interest: In the past year, Dr. 
Faraone received income, travel expenses and/or research support from and/or has 
been on an Advisory Board for Pfizer, Ironshore, Shire, Akili Interactive Labs, 
CogCubed, Alcobra, VAYA Pharma, Neurovance, Impax, NeuroLifeSciences and 
research support from the National Institutes of Health (NIH). His institution 
is seeking a patent for the use of sodium-hydrogen exchange inhibitors in the 
treatment of ADHD. In previous years, he received consulting fees or was on 
Advisory Boards or participated in continuing medical education programs 
sponsored by: Shire, Alcobra, Otsuka, McNeil, Janssen, Novartis, Pfizer and Eli 
Lilly. Dr. Faraone receives royalties from books published by Guilford Press: 
Straight Talk about Your Child's Mental Health and Oxford University Press: 
Schizophrenia: The Facts. In the past 3 years, Dr. Buitelaar has been a 
consultant to / member of advisory board of / and/or speaker for Janssen Cilag 
BV, Eli Lilly, Bristol-Myer Squibb, Shering Plough, UCB, Shire, Novartis and 
Servier. He is not an employee of any of these companies, and not a stock 
shareholder of any of these companies. He has no other financial or material 
support, including expert testimony, patents, and royalties. In the past 3 
years, Dr. Hoekstra has been a consultant to/member of advisory board of Eli 
Lilly and Shire. Dr. Oosterlaan has received an unrestricted investigator 
initiated research grant from Shire. Dr. Franke received a speaker fee from 
Merck. Ms. Richards, Mr. van Rooij, Mr. van der Meer, and Drs. Heslenfeld, Arias 
Vásquez and Hartman have no conflicts of interest do declare.


53. Oncologist. 2019 Apr;24(4):e142-e145. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2018-0430. Epub 
2019 Jan 18.

Genomic Features for Therapeutic Insights of Chemotherapy-Resistant, Primary 
Mediastinal Nonseminomatous Germ Cell Tumors and Comparison with Gonadal 
Counterpart.

Necchi A(1), Bratslavsky G(2), Chung J(3), Millis S(3), Gay LM(3), Ali SM(3), 
Ross JS(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan, Italy 
andrea.necchi@istitutotumori.mi.it.
(2)Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, New York, USA.
(3)Foundation Medicine, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.

Primary mediastinal nonseminomatous germ cell tumors (PMNSGCT) frequently become 
refractory to chemotherapy, and no effective salvage therapy exists. We 
performed genomic profiling on a series of 44 PMNSGCT and compared the results 
with those from chemorefractory, metastatic pure seminomatous (Sem, n = 22) and 
nonseminomatous (NS, n = 86) testicular germ cell tumors. Archival tissues were 
sequenced by a hybrid capture-based technology (FoundationONE; Foundation 
Medicine, Inc., Cambridge, MA). Microsatellite instability (MSI) and tumor 
mutational burden (TMB, mutations [mut]/Mb) were determined.Statistically 
significant differences in genomic alterations (GA) of PMNSGCT versus NS 
included higher TP53 pathway GA (p < .0001), PIK3CA pathway GA (p < .0001), and 
lower cell-cycle pathway GA (p = .0004). There were no MSI-high PMNSGCT cases. 
Mean TMB was similar between the groups, but there were more ≥10 mut/Mb in the 
PMNSGCT group versus NS (11.4% vs. 4.6%).The GA identified in PMNSGCT were 
similar to the findings from NS, with differential opportunities for targeted 
therapies and immunotherapies. Further study of precision treatments appears 
warranted.

© AlphaMed Press 2019.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2018-0430
PMCID: PMC6459248
PMID: 30659078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures of potential conflicts of interest 
may be found at the end of this article.


54. Mol Psychiatry. 2014 Jan;19(1):115-21. doi: 10.1038/mp.2012.161. Epub 2012 Nov 
20.

Genome-wide analysis of rare copy number variations reveals PARK2 as a candidate 
gene for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.

Jarick I(1), Volckmar AL(2), Pütter C(3), Pechlivanis S(3), Nguyen TT(1), 
Dauvermann MR(4), Beck S(2), Albayrak Ö(2), Scherag S(2), Gilsbach S(5), Cichon 
S(6), Hoffmann P(7), Degenhardt F(7), Nöthen MM(8), Schreiber S(9), Wichmann 
HE(10), Jöckel KH(3), Heinrich J(10), Tiesler CM(11), Faraone SV(12), Walitza 
S(13), Sinzig J(14), Freitag C(15), Meyer J(16), Herpertz-Dahlmann B(5), 
Lehmkuhl G(17), Renner TJ(18), Warnke A(18), Romanos M(19), Lesch KP(20), Reif 
A(21), Schimmelmann BG(4), Hebebrand J(2), Scherag A(3), Hinney A(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Biometry and Epidemiology, University of Marburg, 
Marburg, Germany.
(2)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, University of Duisburg-Essen, 
Essen, Germany.
(3)Institute for Medical Informatics, Biometry and Epidemiology (IMIBE), 
University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(4)1] Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, University of 
Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany [2] University Hospital of Child and Adolescent 
Psychiatry, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(5)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Psychosomatics and 
Psychotherapy, RWTH Aachen University Clinics, Aachen, Germany.
(6)1] Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-1), Structural and Functional 
Organization of the Brain, Genomic Imaging, Research Center Juelich, Juelich, 
Germany [2] Institute of Human Genetics, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany [3] 
Deptartment of Genomics, Life and Brain Center, University of Bonn, Bonn, 
Germany.
(7)1] Institute of Human Genetics, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany [2] 
Deptartment of Genomics, Life and Brain Center, University of Bonn, Bonn, 
Germany.
(8)1] Institute of Human Genetics, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany [2] 
Deptartment of Genomics, Life and Brain Center, University of Bonn, Bonn, 
Germany [3] German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Bonn, Germany.
(9)Institute of Clinical Molecular Biology, University Hospital 
Schleswig-Holstein, Campus Kiel, Kiel, Germany.
(10)Institute of Epidemiology, German Research Center for Environmental Health, 
Helmholtz Center Munich, Neuherberg, Germany.
(11)1] Institute of Epidemiology, German Research Center for Environmental 
Health, Helmholtz Center Munich, Neuherberg, Germany [2] Division of Metabolic 
Diseases and Nutritional Medicine, Dr von Hauner Children's Hospital, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(12)Departments of Psychiatry and of Neuroscience and Physiology, SUNY Upstate 
Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(13)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, University of Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(14)1] Department for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, University of Cologne, 
Cologne, Germany [2] Department for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and 
Psychotherapy, LVR-clinic Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(15)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Psychosomatics and 
Psychotherapy, JW Goethe-Universität Frankfurt am Main, Frankfurt am Main, 
Germany.
(16)Department of Neurobehavioral Genetics, Institute of Psychobiology, 
University of Trier, Trier, Germany.
(17)Department for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, University of Cologne, 
Cologne, Germany.
(18)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, University of Wuerzburg, 
Wuerzburg, Germany.
(19)1] Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, University of Wuerzburg, 
Wuerzburg, Germany [2] Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 
Psychosomatics and Psychotherapy, University Hospital of Munich, Munich, 
Germany.
(20)1] Department of Psychiatry, Psychosomatics and Psychotherapy, Division of 
Molecular Psychiatry, ADHD Clinical Research Network, Laboratory of 
Translational Neuroscience, University of Wuerzburg, Wuerzburg, Germany [2] 
Department of Neuroscience, School for Mental Health and Neuroscience, 
Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(21)Department of Psychiatry, Psychosomatics and Psychotherapy, University of 
Wuerzburg, Wuerzburg, Germany.

Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common, highly heritable 
neurodevelopmental disorder. Genetic loci have not yet been identified by 
genome-wide association studies. Rare copy number variations (CNVs), such as 
chromosomal deletions or duplications, have been implicated in ADHD and other 
neurodevelopmental disorders. To identify rare (frequency ≤1%) CNVs that 
increase the risk of ADHD, we performed a whole-genome CNV analysis based on 489 
young ADHD patients and 1285 adult population-based controls and identified one 
significantly associated CNV region. In tests for a global burden of large 
(>500 kb) rare CNVs, we observed a nonsignificant (P=0.271) 1.126-fold enriched 
rate of subjects carrying at least one such CNV in the group of ADHD cases. 
Locus-specific tests of association were used to assess if there were more rare 
CNVs in cases compared with controls. Detected CNVs, which were significantly 
enriched in the ADHD group, were validated by quantitative (q)PCR. Findings were 
replicated in an independent sample of 386 young patients with ADHD and 781 
young population-based healthy controls. We identified rare CNVs within the 
parkinson protein 2 gene (PARK2) with a significantly higher prevalence in ADHD 
patients than in controls (P=2.8 × 10(-4) after empirical correction for 
genome-wide testing). In total, the PARK2 locus (chr 6: 162 659 756-162 767 019) 
harboured three deletions and nine duplications in the ADHD patients and two 
deletions and two duplications in the controls. By qPCR analysis, we validated 
11 of the 12 CNVs in ADHD patients (P=1.2 × 10(-3) after empirical correction 
for genome-wide testing). In the replication sample, CNVs at the PARK2 locus 
were found in four additional ADHD patients and one additional control (P=4.3 × 
10(-2)). Our results suggest that copy number variants at the PARK2 locus 
contribute to the genetic susceptibility of ADHD. Mutations and CNVs in PARK2 
are known to be associated with Parkinson disease.

DOI: 10.1038/mp.2012.161
PMCID: PMC3873032
PMID: 23164820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Biol Psychiatry. 2019 Jul 1;86(1):56-64. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2019.01.023. 
Epub 2019 Feb 7.

Advanced Paternal Age and Early Onset of Schizophrenia in Sporadic Cases: Not 
Confounded by Parental Polygenic Risk for Schizophrenia.

Wang SH(1), Hsiao PC(2), Yeh LL(3), Liu CM(4), Liu CC(4), Hwang TJ(4), Hsieh 
MH(4), Chien YL(4), Lin YT(4), Huang YT(5), Chen CY(6), Chandler SD(7), Faraone 
SV(8), Neale B(6), Glatt SJ(8), Tsuang MT(7), Hwu HG(9), Chen WJ(10).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Public Health and Occupational Safety and Health, College of 
Public Health, China Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(2)Institute of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, College of Public Health, 
Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Healthcare Administration, College of Medical and Health 
Science, Asia University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine and National Taiwan University 
Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(5)Institute of Statistical Science, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan.
(6)Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts.
(7)Center for Behavioral Genomics, Department of Psychiatry and Institute for 
Genomic Medicine, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California.
(8)Departments of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences and Neuroscience and 
Physiology, Medical Genetics Research Center, State University of New York 
Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, New York.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine and National Taiwan University 
Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan; Institute of Brain and Mind Sciences, College of 
Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.
(10)Institute of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, College of Public Health, 
Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Public Health, College of Public Health, Taipei, 
Taiwan; Centers of Genomic and Precision Medicine, National Taiwan University, 
Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address: wjchen@ntu.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND: Whether paternal age effect on schizophrenia is a causation or just 
an association due to confounding by selection into late parenthood is still 
debated. We investigated the association between paternal age and early onset of 
schizophrenia in offspring, controlling for both paternal and maternal 
predisposition to schizophrenia as empirically estimated using polygenic risk 
score (PRS) derived from the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium.
METHODS: Among 2923 sporadic schizophrenia cases selected from the Schizophrenia 
Trio Genomic Research in Taiwan project, 1649 had parents' genotyping data. The 
relationships of paternal schizophrenia PRS to paternal age at first birth (AFB) 
and of maternal schizophrenia PRS to maternal AFB were examined. A logistic 
regression model of patients' early onset of schizophrenia (≤18 years old) on 
paternal age was conducted.
RESULTS: Advanced paternal age over 20 years exhibited a trend of an increasing 
proportion of early onset of schizophrenia (odds ratio per 10-year increase in 
paternal age = 1.28, p = .007) after adjusting for maternal age, sex, and age. 
Older paternal AFB also exhibited an increasing trend of paternal schizophrenia 
PRS. Additionally, a U-shaped relationship between maternal AFB and maternal 
schizophrenia PRS was observed. After adjusting for both paternal and maternal 
schizophrenia PRS, the association of paternal age with patients' early onset of 
schizophrenia remained (odds ratio = 1.29, p = .04).
CONCLUSIONS: The association between paternal age and early onset of 
schizophrenia was not confounded by parental PRS for schizophrenia, which 
partially captures parental genetic vulnerability to schizophrenia. Our findings 
support an independent role of paternal age per se in increased risk of early 
onset of schizophrenia in offspring.

Copyright © 2019 Society of Biological Psychiatry. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2019.01.023
PMID: 30926130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Discov Ment Health. 2023 Jan 30;3(1):5. doi: 10.1007/s44192-023-00032-7.

Digital footprints as a new translational approach for mental health care: a 
commentary.

Licinio J(1), Wong ML(2).

Author information:
(1)Precision Medicine Laboratory in Psychiatry (PMLP), Institute for Human 
Performance, State University of New York, Upstate Medical University, 505 
Irving Ave 3302, Syracuse, NY, 13210, USA. juliolicinio@gmail.com.
(2)Precision Medicine Laboratory in Psychiatry (PMLP), Institute for Human 
Performance, State University of New York, Upstate Medical University, 505 
Irving Ave 3302, Syracuse, NY, 13210, USA.

There is a crisis in mental health care, with more people suffering from 
psychiatric disorders than resources that are available for treatment, even 
though spending is substantial. Millions who suffer from addiction, psychosis, 
depression and suicidality are either untreated or inadequately treated and 
organized psychiatry is unable to reach them. Possibly as reflection of 
under-treatment of psychiatric disorders, the rates of suicide have risen: from 
1999 through 2014, the age-adjusted suicide rate in the US increased 24%, from 
10.5 to 13.0 per 100,000. Assessment of psychiatric symptoms in ongoing 
outpatient settings is costly, inadequate and unable to detect clinical changes 
over time. One's digital phenotype is assessed through footprints left over as 
result of our interface with technology, including automated assessments of 
quantity and quality of social media activity, patterns and speed of device 
usage, and physiological data that is automatically collected, such as location, 
quantity and type of movement, heart rate, and sleep patterns. The use of 
digital footprints has been advocated for large-scale data collection that can 
facilitate psychiatric research in naturalistic settings. We highlight recent 
papers in Discover Mental Health addressing digital approaches to mental health 
and we also advance here the concept that digital footprints are ready for 
clinical use. However, before that happens there needs to be discussion on the 
appropriate boundaries between care that is driven by signals from digital 
footprints and the rights to privacy and self-determination.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s44192-023-00032-7
PMCID: PMC10501006
PMID: 37861744

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


57. Front Oncol. 2023 May 25;13:1176617. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2023.1176617. eCollection 
2023.

AI-based online chat and the future of oncology care: a promising technology or 
a solution in search of a problem?

Kassab J(1), Nasr L(2), Gebrael G(3), Chedid El Helou M(1), Saba L(4), Haroun 
E(5), Dahdah JE(1), Nasr F(3).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH, United 
States.
(2)Department of Leukemia, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX, United States.
(3)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Saint-Joseph University of Beirut, 
Beirut, Lebanon.
(4)Maroone Cancer Center, Cleveland Clinic Florida, Weston, FL, United States.
(5)Division of Hematology and Oncology, State University of New York Upstate 
Medical University, Syracuse, NY, United States.

Comment in
    Front Oncol. 2023 Sep 07;13:1239932.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2023.1176617
PMCID: PMC10250003
PMID: 37305580

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


58. Oncologist. 2023 Feb 8;28(2):e82-e91. doi: 10.1093/oncolo/oyac180.

Comprehensive Landscape of Cyclin Pathway Gene Alterations and Co-occurrence 
with FGF/FGFR Aberrations Across Urinary Tract Tumors.

Jardim DLF(1)(2), Millis SZ(3), Ross JS(3)(4), Lippman S(5), Ali SM(3), Kurzrock 
R(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Hospital Sirio Libanes, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Latin American Cooperative Oncology Group (LACOG), Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.
(3)Foundation Medicine, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(4)Departments of Pathology and Urology, Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, 
NY, USA.
(5)Center for Personalized Cancer Therapy and Division of Hematology and 
Oncology, University of California, San Diego, CA, USA.
(6)WIN Consortium for Personalized Cancer Therapy, Paris, France.
(7)Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, USA.
(8)University of Nebraska (adjunct).

BACKGROUND: Cyclin pathway gene alterations are frequent in urothelial tumors 
and may co-exist with other important aberrations, leading to therapeutic 
opportunities. We characterized the landscape of cyclin gene alterations in 
urothelial and non-urothelial urinary tract (UT) malignancies.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Overall, 6842 urothelial and 897 non-urothelial UT cancers 
were analyzed (hybrid-capture-based comprehensive genomic profile (Foundation 
Medicine)). Alteration frequency in cyclin-sensitizing and -resistance genes, 
and co-occurrence with fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) gene 
abnormalities were evaluated.
RESULTS: Cyclin-activating gene alterations were detected in 47.3% of urothelial 
and 37.9% of non-urothelial UT cancers. Frequency varied by histology and tumor 
site. CDKN2A and CDKN2B loss were the most frequent alterations in urothelial 
tumors (present in 38.5% and 30.4% of patients, respectively). Both genes were 
less frequently altered in adenocarcinomas (15.2% and 8.9%), but commonly 
altered in squamous cell carcinomas (74.4% and 39%). Tumors of neuroendocrine 
origin were relatively silent in activating cyclin alterations, but frequently 
displayed Rb1 alterations (86% and 83.7% of neuroendocrines and small cell 
carcinomas). Urachal tumors (n = 79) presented a distinct landscape of cyclin 
alterations relative to other UT cancers, with less frequent alterations 
overall. FGF/FGFR genes were altered in 34.9% of urothelial (22.1% in FGFR3), 
and 19.4% of non-urothelial urinary tract tumors (6.8% FGFR3). Cyclin-activating 
alterations frequently co-occurred with FGF/FGFR alterations but were in general 
mutually exclusively with cyclin resistance alterations (RB1/CCNE1).
CONCLUSIONS: Cyclin pathway activating alterations are common in urinary tract 
tumors, but frequency varies with histology and tumors sites. Co-occurrence of 
cyclin and FGFR pathway alterations may inform therapeutic opportunities.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/oncolo/oyac180
PMCID: PMC9907036
PMID: 36082904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Sci Rep. 2020 May 25;10(1):8622. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-65322-4.

Genomic analysis of the natural history of attention-deficit/hyperactivity 
disorder using Neanderthal and ancient Homo sapiens samples.

Esteller-Cucala P(1)(2)(3), Maceda I(1)(2), Børglum AD(4)(5)(6), Demontis 
D(4)(5)(6), Faraone SV(7), Cormand B(#)(8)(9)(10)(11), Lao O(#)(12)(13).

Author information:
(1)CNAG-CRG, Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), Barcelona Institute of Science 
and Technology (BIST), Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Institut de Biologia Evolutiva (UPF-CSIC), Barcelona, Spain.
(4)The Lundbeck Foundation Initiative for Integrative Psychiatric Research, 
iPSYCH, Aarhus, Denmark.
(5)Centre for Integrative Sequencing, iSEQ, and Aarhus Genome Centre, Aarhus, 
Denmark.
(6)Department of Biomedicine - Human Genetics, Aarhus University, Aarhus, 
Denmark.
(7)Departments of Psychiatry and of Neuroscience and Physiology, SUNY Upstate 
Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(8)Departament de Genètica, Microbiologia i Estadística, Facultat de Biologia, 
Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. bcormand@ub.edu.
(9)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Raras (CIBERER), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain. bcormand@ub.edu.
(10)Institut de Biomedicina de la Universitat de Barcelona (IBUB), Barcelona, 
Spain. bcormand@ub.edu.
(11)Institut de Recerca Sant Joan de Déu (IR-SJD), Esplugues de Llobregat, 
Spain. bcormand@ub.edu.
(12)CNAG-CRG, Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), Barcelona Institute of 
Science and Technology (BIST), Barcelona, Spain. oscar.lao@cnag.crg.eu.
(13)Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), Barcelona, Spain. oscar.lao@cnag.crg.eu.
(#)Contributed equally

Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is an impairing 
neurodevelopmental condition highly prevalent in current populations. Several 
hypotheses have been proposed to explain this paradox, mainly in the context of 
the Paleolithic versus Neolithic cultural shift but especially within the 
framework of the mismatch theory. This theory elaborates on how a particular 
trait once favoured in an ancient environment might become maladaptive upon 
environmental changes. However, given the lack of genomic data available for 
ADHD, these theories have not been empirically tested. We took advantage of the 
largest GWAS meta-analysis available for this disorder consisting of over 20,000 
individuals diagnosed with ADHD and 35,000 controls, to assess the evolution of 
ADHD-associated alleles in European populations using archaic, ancient and 
modern human samples. We also included Approximate Bayesian computation coupled 
with deep learning analyses and singleton density scores to detect human 
adaptation. Our analyses indicate that ADHD-associated alleles are enriched in 
loss of function intolerant genes, supporting the role of selective pressures in 
this early-onset phenotype. Furthermore, we observed that the frequency of 
variants associated with ADHD has steadily decreased since Paleolithic times, 
particularly in Paleolithic European populations compared to samples from the 
Neolithic Fertile Crescent. We demonstrate this trend cannot be explained by 
African admixture nor Neanderthal introgression, since introgressed Neanderthal 
alleles are enriched in ADHD risk variants. All analyses performed support the 
presence of long-standing selective pressures acting against ADHD-associated 
alleles until recent times. Overall, our results are compatible with the 
mismatch theory for ADHD but suggest a much older time frame for the evolution 
of ADHD-associated alleles compared to previous hypotheses.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-65322-4
PMCID: PMC7248073
PMID: 32451437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


60. BMC Infect Dis. 2021 Jun 30;21(1):623. doi: 10.1186/s12879-021-06347-6.

Comparative evaluation of the Thermo fisher TaqPath™ COVID-19 combo kit with the 
Cepheid Xpert® Xpress SARS-CoV-2 assay for detecting SARS-CoV-2 in 
nasopharyngeal specimens.

Granato PA(1)(2), Kimball SR(3), Alkins BR(3), Cross DC(4), Unz MM(3).

Author information:
(1)Microbiology Department, Laboratory Alliance of Central New York, Liverpool, 
New York, USA. granatop@upstate.edu.
(2)Department of Pathology, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, New York, 
USA. granatop@upstate.edu.
(3)Microbiology Department, Laboratory Alliance of Central New York, Liverpool, 
New York, USA.
(4)Genetic Sciences Division, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Carlsbad, California, 
USA.

PURPOSE: With over 50 SARS-CoV-2 gene amplification assays that have been EUA 
cleared with minimal experimental validation performed, it is likely that not 
all of these assays are comparable in their ability to detect SARS-CoV-2 in 
clinical specimens. Thermo Fisher Scientific is a relatively new company in the 
molecular diagnostics field and the purpose of this study was to compare the 
performance of the Thermo Fisher TaqPath™ Combo Kit with an established test, 
the Cepheid Xpert® Xpress SARS-CoV-2 assay, for its ability to detect SARS-CoV-2 
in nasopharyngeal specimens.
METHODS: A total of 300 randomly selected nasopharyngeal specimens were 
evaluated and tested by the TaqPath and GeneXpert assays. Discordant test 
specimens were arbitrated by performing an alternative PCR assay and Sanger 
sequencing.
RESULTS: The TaqPath assay had a 96.7 and 99.6% positive and negative agreement 
respectively when compared to the Xpert Xpress test. However, after test 
arbitration, the three discordant specimens were arbitrated in favor of the 
TaqPath assay producing a positive and negative percent agreement of 100% for 
the TaqPath Combo Kit while the Xpress SARS-CoV-2 assay had a positive and 
negative percent agreement of 98.3 and 99.2% respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The TaqPath Combo Kit is a high complexity assay that compares 
favorably with the Xpert Xpress test and can be reliably used for the detection 
of SARS-CoV-2 in nasopharyngeal specimens.

DOI: 10.1186/s12879-021-06347-6
PMCID: PMC8243295
PMID: 34193072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no financial or competing 
interests to disclose.


61. Oncologist. 2024 Jan 5;29(1):e47-e58. doi: 10.1093/oncolo/oyad224.

A Retrospective Genomic Landscape of 661 Young Adult Glioblastomas Diagnosed 
Using 2016 WHO Guidelines for Central Nervous System Tumors.

Haberberger JF(1), Pegram W(1), Britt N(1), Schiavone K(1), Severson E(1), 
Sharaf R(2), Albacker LA(2), Williams E(2), Lechpammer M(1), Hemmerich A(1), Lin 
D(1), Huang RSP(1), Hiemenz M(2), Elvin J(2), Graf R(2), Lesser G(3), Kram D(3), 
Strowd R(3), Bi WL(4), Ramkissoon LA(5), Cohen MB(6), Reddy P(2), Creeden J(2), 
Ross JS(2)(7), Alexander BM(2), Ramkissoon SH(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Pathology Department, Foundation Medicine, Morrisville, NC, USA.
(2)Pathology Department, Foundation Medicine, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(3)Pathology Department, Section on Hematology-Oncology, Wake Forest School of 
Medicine, Winston Salem, NC, USA.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Pathology Department, University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel 
Hill, NC, USA.
(6)Wake Forest Comprehensive Cancer Center and Department of Pathology, Wake 
Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(7)Pathology Department, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA.

The authors present a cohort of 661 young adult glioblastomas diagnosed using 
2016 WHO World Health Organization Classification of Tumors of the Central 
Nervous System, utilizing comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) to explore their 
genomic landscape and assess their relationship to currently defined disease 
entities. This analysis explored variants with evidence of pathogenic function, 
common copy number variants (CNVs), and several novel fusion events not 
described in literature. Tumor mutational burden (TMB) mutational signatures, 
anatomic location, and tumor recurrence are further explored. Using data 
collected from CGP, unsupervised machine-learning techniques were leveraged to 
identify 10 genomic classes in previously assigned young adult glioblastomas. 
The authors relate these molecular classes to current World Health Organization 
guidelines and reference current literature to give therapeutic and prognostic 
descriptions where possible.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/oncolo/oyad224
PMCID: PMC10769808
PMID: 37619245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: James F. Haberberger reported employment with 
Foundation Medicine Inc. (FMI), Pathology Research Coordinator, intellectual 
property: FMI (a patent submission is pending for portions of the methods 
involving classifier methods for patient tumor molecular data; however, much of 
the methodology is based on publicly available machine-learning techniques and 
are described in the methodology; patent filing was after internal review at 
FMI, and the paper was (barring minor edits) in its current form; while the 
first author is listed as the inventor, Foundation Medicine Inc. owns the rights 
to the patent). Worthy Pegram is an employee of Foundation Medicine Inc. 
Nicholas Britt reported employment with Foundation Medicine Inc., and ownership 
interests with F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG (Roche). Kelsie Schiavone is an employee 
of Foundation Medicine Inc. Eric Severson was previously affiliated with 
Foundation Medicine Inc., and is an employee with ownership interest in Labcorp. 
Radwa Sharaf is an employee with Foundation Medicine Inc., and owns stock in 
Roche. Lee A. Albacker is an employee of Foundation Medicine Inc., and has 
ownership interests in Roche Holdings AG. Erik Williams reported 
employee/consultant of Foundation Medicine Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of 
Roche Holdings, Inc. and Roche Finance Ltd, and equity interest in an affiliate 
of these Roche entities. Mirna Lechpammer is an employee of Foundation Medicine 
Inc. Amanda Hemmerich is an employee of Foundation Medicine Inc. Douglas Lin is 
a full-time employee of Foundation Medicine Inc., a whole subsidiary of Roche, 
and has Roche stocks. Richard S.P. Huang is an employee of Foundation Medicine 
Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Roche and has equity interest in Roche. 
Matthew Hiemenz is an employee of Foundation Medicine Inc. Julia Elvin is an 
employee of Foundation Medicine Inc. Ryon Graf is an employee of Foundation 
Medicine Inc. James Creeden is an employee of Foundation Medicine Inc. Jeffrey 
S. Ross is an employee of Foundation Medicine Inc. Brian M. Alexander reported 
employment at Foundation Medicine Inc., and equity in Roche as part of 
compensation package. Shakti H. Ramkissoon is an employee of Foundation Medicine 
Inc. The other authors indicated no financial relationships.


62. Am J Ophthalmol. 2023 Nov 4:S0002-9394(23)00456-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.ajo.2023.10.025. Online ahead of print.

Application of a deep learning system to detect papilledema on nonmydriatic 
ocular fundus photographs in an emergency department.

Biousse V(1), Najjar RP(2), Tang Z(3), Lin MY(4), Wright DW(5), Keadey MT(5), 
Wong TY(6), Bruce BB(7), Milea D(8), Newman NJ(9); BONSAI Study Group.

Collaborators: Fraser CL(10), Micieli JA(11), Costello F(12), Bénard-Séguin 
É(12), Yang H(13), Chan CKM(14), Cheung CY(14), Chan NC(14), Hamann S(15), 
Gohier P(16), Vautier A(16), Rougier MB(17), Chiquet C(18), Vignal-Clermont 
C(19), Hage R(19), Khanna RK(19), Tran THC(20), Lagrèze WA(21), Jonas JB(22), 
Ambika S(23), Fard MA(24), La Morgia C(25), Carbonelli M(25), Barboni P(25), 
Carelli V(25), Romagnoli M(25), Amore G(25), Nakamura M(26), Fumio T(26), 
Petzold A(27), Wenniger Lj MB(27), Kho R(28), Fonseca PL(29), Bikbov MM(30), 
Milea D(31), Najjar RP(31), Ting D(31), Tang Z(31), Loo JL(31), Tow S(31), 
Singhal S(31), Vasseneix C(31), Wong TY(31), Lamoureux E(31), Yu Chen C(31), 
Aung T(31), Schmetterer L(31), Sanda N(32), Thuman G(32), Hwang JM(33), 
Vanikieti K(34), Suwan Y(34), Padungkiatsagul T(34), Yu-Wai-Man P(35), Jurkute 
N(35), Hong EH(35), Biousse V(36), Newman NJ(36), Peragallo JH(36), Datillo 
M(36), Kedar S(36), Lin MY(36), Patil A(36), Aung A(36), Boyko M(36), Alsakran 
WA(36), Zayani A(36), Bouthour W(36), Banc A(36), Mosley R(36), Labella F(36), 
Miller NR(37), Chen JJ(38), Mejico LJ(39), Kilangalanga JN(40).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
GA, USA; Department of Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
GA, USA. Electronic address: vbiouss@emory.edu.
(2)Singapore Eye Research Institute and Singapore National Eye Centre, 
Singapore; Duke-NUS Medical School, National University of Singapore, Singapore; 
Eye N' Brain Research Group, Department of Ophthalmology, Yong Loo Lin School of 
Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore; Center for Innovation & 
Precision Eye Health, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of 
Singapore, Singapore.
(3)Singapore Eye Research Institute and Singapore National Eye Centre, 
Singapore.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
GA, USA.
(5)Department of Emergency Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, 
Atlanta, GA, USA.
(6)Singapore Eye Research Institute and Singapore National Eye Centre, 
Singapore; Duke-NUS Medical School, National University of Singapore, Singapore; 
Tsinghua Medicine, Tsinghua University, China.
(7)Department of Ophthalmology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
GA, USA; Department of Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
GA, USA; Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University School of Medicine, 
Atlanta, GA, US.
(8)Singapore Eye Research Institute and Singapore National Eye Centre, 
Singapore; Duke-NUS Medical School, National University of Singapore, Singapore.
(9)Department of Ophthalmology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
GA, USA; Department of Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
GA, USA; Department of Neurological Surgery, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(10)Save Sight Institute, Faculty of Health and Medicine, The University of 
Sydney, NSW Australia.
(11)Kensington Eye Institute, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto Western Hospital, 
Toronto, Canada.
(12)Departments of Clinical Neurosciences and Surgery, University of Calgary, 
Canada.
(13)Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, P.R. China.
(14)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(15)Department of Ophthalmology, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen, 
Glostrup, Denmark.
(16)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital Angers, Angers, France.
(17)Department of Ophthalmology, Hôpital Pellegrin, CHU de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, 
France.
(18)Department of Ophthalmology, Grenoble Alpes University Hospital, Grenoble, 
France.
(19)Department of Ophthalmology, Fondation Adolphe de Rothschild, Paris, France.
(20)Department of Ophthalmology, Lille Catholic Hospital, Lille Catholic 
University and Inserm U1171, Lille, France.
(21)Eye Center, Medical Center, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(22)Department of Ophthalmology, Medical Faculty Mannheim of the 
Ruprecht-Karls-University of Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany.
(23)Department of Neuro-ophthalmology, Sankara Nethralaya, Medical Research 
Foundation, Chennai, India.
(24)Farabi Eye Hospital, Tehran University of Medical Science, Tehran, Iran.
(25)IRCCS Istituto delle Scienze Neurologiche di Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(26)Department of Surgery, Division of Ophthalmology. Kobe University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Kobe, Japan.
(27)Neuro-ophthalmology Expert Centre, Amsterdam University Medical Center, 
Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(28)American Eye Center, Mandaluyong City, Philippines.
(29)Department of Ophthalmology, Centro Hospitalar e Universitário de Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal.
(30)Ufa Eye Research Institute, Ufa, Russia.
(31)Singapore National Eye Centre; Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore; 
National University of Singapore.
(32)The Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Geneva University Hospital, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(33)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine, 
Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seoul, South Korea.
(34)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine Ramathibodi Hospital, 
Mahidol University. Bangkok, Thailand.
(35)Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, United Kingdom.
(36)Department of Ophthalmology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta 
GA, USA.
(37)Departments of Ophthalmology, Neurology and Neurosurgery. Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(38)Department of Ophthalmology and Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MI, USA.
(39)Department of Neurology, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA; 
Democratic Republic of Congo.
(40)Dept of Ophthalmology, Saint Joseph Hospital, Boulevard Lumumba, 15eme rue, 
Kinshasa, Limete.

PURPOSE: The Fundus photography vs. Ophthalmoscopy Trial Outcomes in the 
Emergency Department (FOTO-ED) studies showed that ED providers poorly 
recognized funduscopic findings in ED patients. We tested a modified version of 
the Brain and Optic Nerve Study Artificial Intelligence (BONSAI) deep learning 
system on nonmydriatic fundus photographs from the FOTO-ED studies to determine 
if the DLS could have improved the detection of papilledema had it been 
available to ED providers as a real-time diagnostic aid.
DESIGN: Retrospective secondary analysis of a cohort of patients included in the 
FOTO-ED studies.
METHODS: The testing dataset included 1608 photographs obtained in 828 patients 
from the FOTO-ED studies. Photographs were reclassified according to the optic 
disc classification system used by the deep learning system ["normal optic 
discs"; "papilledema"; "other optic disc abnormalities"]. The system's 
performance was evaluated by calculating the AUC, sensitivity and specificity 
using a one-vs-rest strategy, with reference to expert neuro-ophthalmologists.
RESULTS: The BONSAI-deep learning system successfully distinguished normal from 
abnormal optic discs [(AUC 0.92 (95%CI, 0.90-0.93); sensitivity 75.6% 
(73.7%-77.5%) and specificity 89.6% (86.3%-92.8%)], and papilledema from normal 
and others [(AUC 0.97 (0.95-0.99); sensitivity 84.0% (75.0%-92.6%) and 
specificity 98.9% (98.5%-99.4%)]. Six patients with missed papilledema in one 
eye were correctly identified by the deep learning system as having papilledema 
in the other eye.
CONCLUSIONS: The BONSAI deep learning system was able to reliably identify 
papilledema and normal optic discs on non-mydriatic photographs obtained in the 
FOTO-ED studies. Our deep learning system has excellent potential as a 
diagnostic aid in EDs and non-ophthalmology clinics equipped with nonmydriatic 
fundus cameras.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2023.10.025
PMID: 37926337


63. Case Rep Pathol. 2020 Aug 12;2020:6482837. doi: 10.1155/2020/6482837. 
eCollection 2020.

Invasive Carcinoma Ex-Pleomorphic Adenoma of the Lacrimal Gland with a 
Cystadenocarcinoma Component: A Case Report and Review of the Literature.

Neerukonda VK(1), Carruth B(1)(2), Estopinal MDV(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, State University of New York Upstate Medical 
University, Syracuse, New York, USA.
(2)Eye Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery of Central New York, 3400 Vickery Rd, 
North Syracuse, NY 13212, USA.

Lacrimal gland neoplasms comprise up to 18% of all orbital masses clinically and 
histologically. Much of our current core knowledge regarding lacrimal gland 
tumors stems from prior study of their more common counterparts, the salivary 
glands. The prognosis for each lacrimal gland tumor is contingent upon proper 
clinical evaluation and ultimately the histopathologic diagnosis. We describe a 
case of an invasive carcinoma ex-pleomorphic adenoma (Ca-ex-PA) with a 
cystadenocarcinoma component arising from the lacrimal gland in the absence of 
any previously diagnosed pleomorphic adenoma (benign mixed tumor) or prior 
incisional surgery. This case illustrates the importance of the histopathologic 
assessment including immunohistochemistry and genetic testing to narrow a 
differential diagnosis and potentially aid or guide therapy in the future. Our 
finding suggests that carcinoma of the lacrimal gland may be derived from 
previously undiagnosed and perhaps even subclinical pleomorphic adenoma.

Copyright © 2020 Vamsee K. Neerukonda et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/6482837
PMCID: PMC7441417
PMID: 32850170

Conflict of interest statement: None of the authors declare any competing 
interests. Currently, Dr. Del Valle Estopinal is the Director of Ophthalmic 
Pathology and Assistant Clinical Professor of the Departments of Ophthalmology 
and Pathology at University of California, Irvine, 101 The City Dr S, Orange, CA 
92868.


64. J Clin Lab Anal. 2023 Dec;37(23-24):e24992. doi: 10.1002/jcla.24992. Epub 2023 
Dec 7.

Expanded molecular detection of MPL codon p.W515 and p.S505N mutations in 
myeloproliferative neoplasms.

Miller EW(1), Lamberson CM(1), Akabari RR(1), Nasr MR(1), Sperber SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, New York, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Patients negative for the JAK2 p.V617F somatic variant are 
frequently reflexed to testing for MPL exon 10 variants. Detection of these 
variants via multiplexed allele-specific PCR followed by fragment analysis has 
been previously published. The present study builds on this concept by improving 
the detection of the p.W515A variant, adding a second allele-specific primer to 
detect the p.W515R variant, and incorporating an improved primer for p.S505N 
detection.
METHODS: The W515 amplification employs 5'-labeled allele-specific forward 
primers to detect p.W515K, p.W515L, p.W515R, and p.W515A. The p.S505N 
amplification includes an allele-specific reverse primer with a tail extension. 
Fragments were subject to capillary electrophoresis on an ABI 3500 Genetic 
Analyzer and analyzed using GeneMapper 6.0 (Thermo Fisher Scientific).
RESULTS: Thirty MPL-negative and 13 MPL-positive samples previously tested by a 
reference laboratory were tested with the MPL LDT. Results were 100% concordant. 
The MPL LDT has a limit of detection of at least 5% VAF for the p.W515 variants 
and 10% VAF for the p.S505N variant.
CONCLUSION: Current MPL assays are predominantly focused on p.W515L/K and 
p.S505N mutations. We have engineered an MPL test for detecting p.W515A/L/K/R 
and p.S505N variants, thereby increasing the diagnostic yield with little 
additional expense or technician time.

© 2023 The Authors. Journal of Clinical Laboratory Analysis published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jcla.24992
PMCID: PMC10756946
PMID: 38058281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


65. Artif Intell Med. 2014 Jan;60(1):65-77. doi: 10.1016/j.artmed.2013.11.003. Epub 
2013 Nov 23.

Classification of small lesions on dynamic breast MRI: Integrating dimension 
reduction and out-of-sample extension into CADx methodology.

Nagarajan MB(1), Huber MB(2), Schlossbauer T(3), Leinsinger G(3), Krol A(4), 
Wismüller A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Imaging Sciences, University of Rochester, 430 Elmwood Avenue, 
Rochester, NY 14627, USA; Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of 
Rochester, 430 Elmwood Avenue, Rochester, NY 14627, USA. Electronic address: 
mahesh.nagarajan@rochester.edu.
(2)Department of Imaging Sciences, University of Rochester, 430 Elmwood Avenue, 
Rochester, NY 14627, USA; Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of 
Rochester, 430 Elmwood Avenue, Rochester, NY 14627, USA.
(3)Department of Radiology, Ludwig Maximilians University, Klinikum Innenstadt, 
Ziemssenstr. 1, 80336 Munich, Germany.
(4)Department of Radiology, SUNY Upstate Medical University, 750 E. Adams St, 
Syracuse, NY 13210, USA.
(5)Department of Imaging Sciences, University of Rochester, 430 Elmwood Avenue, 
Rochester, NY 14627, USA; Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of 
Rochester, 430 Elmwood Avenue, Rochester, NY 14627, USA; Department of 
Radiology, Ludwig Maximilians University, Klinikum Innenstadt, Ziemssenstr. 1, 
80336 Munich, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: While dimension reduction has been previously explored in computer 
aided diagnosis (CADx) as an alternative to feature selection, previous 
implementations of its integration into CADx do not ensure strict separation 
between training and test data required for the machine learning task. This 
compromises the integrity of the independent test set, which serves as the basis 
for evaluating classifier performance.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: We propose, implement and evaluate an improved CADx 
methodology where strict separation is maintained. This is achieved by 
subjecting the training data alone to dimension reduction; the test data is 
subsequently processed with out-of-sample extension methods. Our approach is 
demonstrated in the research context of classifying small diagnostically 
challenging lesions annotated on dynamic breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
studies. The lesions were dynamically characterized through topological feature 
vectors derived from Minkowski functionals. These feature vectors were then 
subject to dimension reduction with different linear and non-linear algorithms 
applied in conjunction with out-of-sample extension techniques. This was 
followed by classification through supervised learning with support vector 
regression. Area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve (AUC) was 
evaluated as the metric of classifier performance.
RESULTS: Of the feature vectors investigated, the best performance was observed 
with Minkowski functional 'perimeter' while comparable performance was observed 
with 'area'. Of the dimension reduction algorithms tested with 'perimeter', the 
best performance was observed with Sammon's mapping (0.84±0.10) while comparable 
performance was achieved with exploratory observation machine (0.82±0.09) and 
principal component analysis (0.80±0.10).
CONCLUSIONS: The results reported in this study with the proposed CADx 
methodology present a significant improvement over previous results reported 
with such small lesions on dynamic breast MRI. In particular, non-linear 
algorithms for dimension reduction exhibited better classification performance 
than linear approaches, when integrated into our CADx methodology. We also note 
that while dimension reduction techniques may not necessarily provide an 
improvement in classification performance over feature selection, they do allow 
for a higher degree of feature compaction.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.artmed.2013.11.003
PMCID: PMC3914204
PMID: 24355697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: 7. Conflict of interest statement None declared.


66. Cureus. 2021 Jan 25;13(1):e12908. doi: 10.7759/cureus.12908.

Mitochondrial Myopathy, Encephalopathy, Lactic acidosis and Stroke-Like Episodes 
Syndrome Presenting With Anton-Babinski Syndrome and Concurrent Occipital Lobe 
Seizures.

Ewida A(1), Ahmed R(1), Luo A(2), Ghonim HT(3), Anilkumar AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurology, Upstate University Hospital, Syracuse, USA.
(2)Neurology, University of Texas (UT) Health Science Center at San Antonio, San 
Antonio, USA.
(3)Neurology, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh, USA.

Mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes 
(MELAS) is a complex group of disorders with multisystem involvement that have a 
wide range of biochemical and genetic defects. The earliest symptoms of MELAS 
typically include easy fatigability, muscle weakness, encephalopathy with 
stroke-like episodes, recurrent headaches and seizures. The pathogenesis of 
stroke-like episodes manifesting as focal deficits like acute cortical blindness 
is not fully understood. We present an eight-year-old, right-handed boy with 
MELAS confirmed by the presence of pathogenic missense variant mutation 
(mt.3243A>G) presenting with acute intermittent reversible episodes of cortical 
blindness and Anton-Babinski Syndrome secondary to concurrent occipital lobe 
seizures captured during video electroencephalography (V-EEG) monitoring, in 
addition to the neuro-imaging which was not consistent with acute 
ischemic stroke. This case highlights the importance of the V-EEG monitoring 
besides clinical testing and radiographic correlation during acute cortical 
blindness episodes in MELAS as occipital lobe seizures could be a part of the 
symptomatology.

Copyright © 2021, Ewida et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.12908
PMCID: PMC7904536
PMID: 33654593

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


67. Innovations (Phila). 2023 Sep-Oct;18(5):506-508. doi: 10.1177/15569845231199741. 
Epub 2023 Oct 3.

Robot-Assisted Excision of a Left Ventricular Myxoma and Hemangioma.

Martin SJ(1), Maxey-Jones C(2), Zhou Z(2), Nazem A(2), Cherney A(2), Lutz CJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(2)St. Joseph's Hospital, Syracuse, NY, USA.

Left ventricular masses are rare entities that often require surgical excision 
when diagnosed due to the risk of embolization. We report 2 separate patients 
presenting with evidence of cerebral embolization both of whom were diagnosed 
with isolated left ventricular masses and underwent surgical excision through a 
robot-assisted approach. Microscopic pathology revealed a myxoma and hemangioma, 
respectively. Both cases demonstrate that left ventricular masses can be 
feasibly excised through a robot-assisted minithoracotomy approach.

DOI: 10.1177/15569845231199741
PMID: 37786985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


68. JCO Precis Oncol. 2020 Jun 16;4:PO.19.00406. doi: 10.1200/PO.19.00406. 
eCollection 2020.

Vulvar Squamous Cell Carcinoma: Comprehensive Genomic Profiling of HPV+ Versus 
HPV- Forms Reveals Distinct Sets of Potentially Actionable Molecular Targets.

Williams EA(1), Werth AJ(2), Sharaf R(1), Montesion M(1), Sokol ES(1), Pavlick 
DC(1), McLaughlin-Drubin M(1), Erlich R(1), Toma H(2), Williams KJ(3), Venstrom 
JM(1), Alexander BM(1), Shah N(1), Danziger N(1), Hemmerich AC(1), Severson 
EA(1), Killian JK(1), Lin DI(1), Ross JS(1)(4), Tse JY(1)(5), Ramkissoon 
SH(1)(6), Mochel MC(7), Elvin JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Foundation Medicine, Cambridge, MA.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Christiana Hospital, Newark, DE.
(3)Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple University, Department of Physiology, 
Department of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA.
(4)Department of Pathology, State University of New York Upstate Medical 
University, Syracuse, NY.
(5)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Tufts University School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA.
(6)Wake Forest Comprehensive Cancer Center and Department of Pathology, Wake 
Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC.
(7)Departments of Pathology and Dermatology, Virginia Commonwealth University 
School of Medicine, Richmond, VA.

PURPOSE: Vulvar squamous cell carcinoma (vSCC) encompasses two predominant 
variants: one associated with detectable high-risk strains of human 
papillomavirus (hrHPV) and a second form often occurring in the context of 
chronic dermatitis in postmenopausal women. Genomic assessment of a large-scale 
cohort of patients with aggressive vSCC may identify distinct mutational 
signatures.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Tumor samples from a total of 280 patients with vSCC 
underwent hybridization capture with analysis of up to 406 cancer-related genes. 
Human papillomavirus (HPV) sequences were detected by de novo assembly of 
nonhuman sequencing reads and aligned to the RefSeq database. 
Immunohistochemistry for programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) was assessed.
RESULTS: One hundred two of 280 vSCCs (36%) contained hrHPV sequences, 
predominantly HPV 16 (88%). The HPV-positive (HPV+) group was significantly 
younger (median age, 59 v 64 years; P = .001). Compared with HPV-negative (HPV-) 
vSCCs, HPV+ tumors showed more frequent pathogenic alterations in PIK3CA (31% v 
16%; P = .004), PTEN (14% v 2%; P < .0001), EP300 (14% v 1%; P < .0001), STK11 
(14% v 1%; P < .0001), AR (5% v 0%; P = .006), and FBXW7 (10% v 3%; P = .03). In 
contrast, HPV- vSCCs showed more alterations in TP53 (83% v 6%; P < .0001), 
TERTp (71% v 9%; P < .0001), CDKN2A (55% v 2%; P < .0001), CCND1 amplification 
(22% v 2%; P < .0001), FAT1 (25% v 4%; P < .0001), NOTCH1 (19% v 6%; P = .002), 
and EGFR amplification (11% v 0%; P < .0001), as well as a higher rate of 9p24.1 
(PDL1/PDL2) amplification (5% v 1%) and PD-L1 immunohistochemistry high-positive 
tumor staining (33% v 9%; P = .04).
CONCLUSION: Comprehensive molecular profiles of vSCC vary considerably with 
hrHPV status and may inform patient selection into clinical trials. Sixty-one 
percent of HPV+ vSCCs had a pathogenic alteration in the PI3K/mTOR pathway, 
whereas HPV- vSCCs showed alterations in TP53, TERTp, CDKN2A, CCND1, and EGFR, 
and biomarkers associated with responsiveness to immunotherapy.

© 2020 by American Society of Clinical Oncology.

DOI: 10.1200/PO.19.00406
PMCID: PMC7446361
PMID: 32923875

Conflict of interest statement: The following represents disclosure information 
provided by authors of this manuscript. All relationships are considered 
compensated unless otherwise noted. Relationships are self-held unless noted. I 
= Immediate Family Member, Inst = My Institution. Relationships may not relate 
to the subject matter of this manuscript. For more information about ASCO's 
conflict of interest policy, please refer to www.asco.org/rwc or 
ascopubs.org/po/author-center. Open Payments is a public database containing 
information reported by companies about payments made to US-licensed physicians 
(Open Payments). Erik A. WilliamsEmployment: Foundation Medicine Stock and Other 
Ownership Interests: F. Hoffmann-La RocheRadwa SharafEmployment: Foundation 
Medicine Stock and Other Ownership Interests: RocheMeagan MontesionStock and 
Other Ownership Interests: RocheEthan S. SokolEmployment: Foundation Medicine 
Stock and Other Ownership Interests: Roche (Parent of FMI)Dean C. PavlickStock 
and Other Ownership Interests: RocheMolly McLaughlin-DrubinEmployment: 
Foundation Medicine Employment: PatientsLikeMe (I), Precision for Medicine (I) 
Stock and Other Ownership Interests: Roche Travel, Accommodations, Expenses: 
Foundation MedicineRachel ErlichEmployment: Foundation Medicine Stock and Other 
Ownership Interests: Foundation MedicineKevin Jon WilliamsStock and Other 
Ownership Interests: Hygieia Stock and Other Ownership Interests: Gemphire 
Therapeutics Consulting or Advisory Role: Gemphire Therapeutics, Inc. Research 
Funding: Novo NordiskJeff M. VenstromEmployment: Genentech, Foundation Medicine 
Leadership: Genentech Stock and Other Ownership Interests: Genentech Research 
Funding: Genentech, Foundation Medicine Travel, Accommodations, Expenses: 
GenentechBrian M. AlexanderEmployment: Foundation Medicine Leadership: 
Foundation Medicine Stock and Other Ownership Interests: Roche Research Funding: 
Eli Lilly (Inst), Puma (Inst), Celgene (Inst) Open Payments Link: 
https://openpaymentsdata.cms.gov/physician/854258/summaryNikunj ShahEmployment: 
Foundation MedicineNatalie DanzigerEmployment: Foundation MedicineAmanda C. 
HemmerichEmployment: Foundation Medicine Stock and Other Ownership Interests: 
Foundation Medicine (Inst)Eric A. SeversonEmployment: Foundation Medicine, 
Partners Healthcare Stock and Other Ownership Interests: Foundation 
MedicineJonathan Keith KillianEmployment: Foundation Medicine Stock and Other 
Ownership Interests: Foundation MedicineDouglas I. LinEmployment: Foundation 
MedicineJeffrey S. RossEmployment: Foundation Medicine Leadership: Foundation 
Medicine Stock and Other Ownership Interests: Foundation Medicine Consulting or 
Advisory Role: Celsius Therapeutics Research Funding: Foundation MedicineJulie 
Y. TseEmployment: Foundation Medicine, Pathology Watch Travel, Accommodations, 
Expenses: Foundation MedicineShakti H. RamkissoonEmployment: Foundation Medicine 
Stock and Other Ownership Interests: Foundation MedicineJulia A. 
ElvinEmployment: Foundation Medicine No other potential conflicts of interest 
were reported.


69. Physiol Genomics. 2018 Aug 1;50(8):648-657. doi: 
10.1152/physiolgenomics.00042.2017. Epub 2018 May 18.

Gene expression profile analysis of aortic vascular smooth muscle cells reveals 
upregulation of cadherin genes in myocardial infarction patients.

Derda AA(1), Woo CC(2), Wongsurawat T(3)(4), Richards M(5), Lee CN(2)(6), 
Kofidis T(2)(6), Kuznetsov VA(3)(7), Sorokin VA(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular and Translational Therapeutic Strategies (IMTTS), 
IFB-Tx, Hannover Medical School , Hannover , Germany.
(2)Department of Surgery, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University 
of Singapore , Singapore.
(3)Department of Genome and Gene Expression Data Analysis, Bioinformatics 
Institute, Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR), Singapore.
(4)Department of Biomedical Informatics, College of Medicine, University of 
Arkansas for Medical Sciences , Little Rock, Arkansas.
(5)Cardiovascular Research Institute, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore , Singapore.
(6)Department of Cardiac, Thoracic and Vascular Surgery, National University 
Hospital, National University Health System , Singapore.
(7)Department of Urology, SUNY Upstate Medical University , Syracuse, New York.

Myocardial infarction (MI) induced by acute coronary arterial occlusion is 
usually secondary to atherosclerotic plaque rupture. Dysregulated response of 
vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) in atherosclerotic plaques may promote 
plaque rupture. Cadherins (CDHs) form adherens junctions and are known 
stabilizers of atherosclerotic plaques. To date, the expression patterns of 
cadherin have not been well investigated in MI aortic VSMCs. We aimed to 
investigate the expression of cadherin genes in the aortic wall of patients with 
and without MI. Laser capture microdissected VSMCs were obtained from aortic 
tissue samples of patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery. 
Integrative bioinformatic analysis of the microarray profiles of the VSMCs 
revealed that MI is discriminated at the whole transcriptome level by hundreds 
of differentially expressed genes, including genes involved in cell adhesion, of 
which the cadherin superfamily genes were among the top structural category. 
Eleven significantly deregulated candidates of the cadherin superfamily were 
chosen and formed a new classifier that collectively discriminated MI vs. non-MI 
with ~95% accuracy. Significance validation was performed with an independent 
cohort by quantitative RT-quantitative PCR, confirming overexpression of CDH2, 
CDH12, PCDH17, and PCDH18 in MI VSMCs. The dysregulation of these cadherin 
superfamily genes might be related to an MI-induced remote effect on aortic wall 
VSMCs and to imbalances in signaling pathways and myocardial repair mechanisms. 
Although pathophysiological significance of our findings requires functional 
studies, mRNA upregulation of the identified cadherin superfamily members in 
VSMCs might be associated with the progression of atherosclerosis and 
angiogenesis activation in MI.

DOI: 10.1152/physiolgenomics.00042.2017
PMID: 29775430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Nat Genet. 2023 Dec;55(12):2060-2064. doi: 10.1038/s41588-023-01524-6. Epub 2023 
Nov 30.

Benchmarking of deep neural networks for predicting personal gene expression 
from DNA sequence highlights shortcomings.

Sasse A(#)(1), Ng B(#)(2), Spiro AE(#)(1), Tasaki S(2), Bennett DA(2), Gaiteri 
C(2)(3), De Jager PL(4), Chikina M(5), Mostafavi S(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science and Engineering, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(2)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, 
USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(4)Center for Translational & Computational Neuroimmunology, Department of 
Neurology, and the Taub Institute for the Study of Alzheimer's Disease and the 
Aging Brain, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Department of Computational and Systems Biology, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA. mchikina@gmail.com.
(6)Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science and Engineering, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. saramos@cs.washington.edu.
(7)Canadian Institute for Advanced Research, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
saramos@cs.washington.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2023 Sep 28;:

Deep learning methods have recently become the state of the art in a variety of 
regulatory genomic tasks1-6, including the prediction of gene expression from 
genomic DNA. As such, these methods promise to serve as important tools in 
interpreting the full spectrum of genetic variation observed in personal 
genomes. Previous evaluation strategies have assessed their predictions of gene 
expression across genomic regions; however, systematic benchmarking is lacking 
to assess their predictions across individuals, which would directly evaluate 
their utility as personal DNA interpreters. We used paired whole genome 
sequencing and gene expression from 839 individuals in the ROSMAP study7 to 
evaluate the ability of current methods to predict gene expression variation 
across individuals at varied loci. Our approach identifies a limitation of 
current methods to correctly predict the direction of variant effects. We show 
that this limitation stems from insufficiently learned sequence motif grammar 
and suggest new model training strategies to improve performance.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.

DOI: 10.1038/s41588-023-01524-6
PMID: 38036778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. PLoS Comput Biol. 2023 Jul 27;19(7):e1011231. doi: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1011231. 
eCollection 2023 Jul.

Individual identity information persists in learned calls of introduced parrot 
populations.

Smith-Vidaurre G(1)(2)(3)(4), Pérez-Marrufo V(1)(5), Hobson EA(4), 
Salinas-Melgoza A(6), Wright TF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, New Mexico, 
United States of America.
(2)Laboratory of Neurogenetics of Language, Rockefeller University, New York, 
New York, United States of America.
(3)Rockefeller University Field Research Center, Millbrook, New York, United 
States of America.
(4)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, 
Ohio, United States of America.
(5)Department of Biology, Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York, United States 
of America.
(6)Facultad de Biología, Universidad Michoacana de San Nicolás de Hidalgo, 
Morelia, Michoacán, Mexico.

Animals can actively encode different types of identity information in learned 
communication signals, such as group membership or individual identity. The 
social environments in which animals interact may favor different types of 
information, but whether identity information conveyed in learned signals is 
robust or responsive to social disruption over short evolutionary timescales is 
not well understood. We inferred the type of identity information that was most 
salient in vocal signals by combining computational tools, including supervised 
machine learning, with a conceptual framework of "hierarchical mapping", or 
patterns of relative acoustic convergence across social scales. We used 
populations of a vocal learning species as a natural experiment to test whether 
the type of identity information emphasized in learned vocalizations changed in 
populations that experienced the social disruption of introduction into new 
parts of the world. We compared the social scales with the most salient identity 
information among native and introduced range monk parakeet (Myiopsitta 
monachus) calls recorded in Uruguay and the United States, respectively. We also 
evaluated whether the identity information emphasized in introduced range calls 
changed over time. To place our findings in an evolutionary context, we compared 
our results with another parrot species that exhibits well-established and 
distinctive regional vocal dialects that are consistent with signaling group 
identity. We found that both native and introduced range monk parakeet calls 
displayed the strongest convergence at the individual scale and minimal 
convergence within sites. We did not identify changes in the strength of 
acoustic convergence within sites over time in the introduced range calls. These 
results indicate that the individual identity information in learned 
vocalizations did not change over short evolutionary timescales in populations 
that experienced the social disruption of introduction. Our findings point to 
exciting new research directions about the robustness or responsiveness of 
communication systems over different evolutionary timescales.

Copyright: © 2023 Smith-Vidaurre et al. This is an open access article 
distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which 
permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided 
the original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1011231
PMCID: PMC10374045
PMID: 37498847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: We declare no competing interests associated 
with authorship or the publication of this work.


72. medRxiv. 2023 Mar 6:2023.03.03.23286706. doi: 10.1101/2023.03.03.23286706. 
Preprint.

Cross-ancestry, cell-type-informed atlas of gene, isoform, and splicing 
regulation in the developing human brain.

Wen C(1)(2)(3), Margolis M(2)(3), Dai R(4), Zhang P(2)(3), Przytycki PF(5), Vo 
DD(2)(3)(6)(7), Bhattacharya A(8)(9), Matoba N(10)(11), Jiao C(4), Kim M(2)(3), 
Tsai E(2)(3), Hoh C(2)(3), Aygün N(10)(11), Walker RL(1)(2)(3), Chatzinakos 
C(12)(13)(14), Clarke D(15), Pratt H(16), Consortium 
P(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9)(10)(11)(12)(13)(14)(15)(16)(17)(18)(19)(20)(21)(22)(23)(24)(25)(26)(27)(28)(29)(30)(31)(32)(33)(34)(35)(36)(37)(38)(39)(40)(41)(42)(43)(44), 
Peters MA(17), Gerstein M(15)(18)(19)(20), Daskalakis NP(12)(13)(14), Weng 
Z(16), Jaffe AE(21)(22)(23)(24)(25)(26)(27), Kleinman JE(21)(22), Hyde 
TM(21)(22)(28), Weinberger DR(21)(22)(23)(24)(28), Bray NJ(29), Sestan 
N(30)(31), Geschwind DH(3)(32)(33), Roeder K(34)(35), Gusev A(36)(37)(38)(39), 
Pasaniuc B(1)(3)(8)(33)(40), Stein JL(10)(11), Love MI(10)(41), Pollard 
KS(5)(42)(43), Liu C(4)(44), Gandal MJ(1)(2)(3)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Interdepartmental Program in Bioinformatics, University of California, Los 
Angeles; Los Angeles, CA, 90095, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California, Los Angeles; Los Angeles, CA, 90095, USA.
(3)Department of Human Genetics, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California, Los Angeles; Los Angeles, CA, 90095, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, SUNY Upstate Medical University; Syracuse, NY, 
13210, USA.
(5)Gladstone Institute of Data Science and Biotechnology; San Francisco, CA, 
94158, USA.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania; Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.
(7)Lifespan Brain Institute, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia; 
Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.
(8)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, David Geffen School of 
Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles; Los Angeles, CA, 90095, USA.
(9)Institute for Quantitative and Computational Biosciences, David Geffen School 
of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles; Los Angeles, CA, 90095, USA.
(10)Department of Genetics, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill; Chapel 
Hill, NC, 27599, USA.
(11)UNC Neuroscience Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill; Chapel 
Hill, NC, 27599, USA.
(12)Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School; Boston, MA, 02215, USA.
(13)McLean Hospital; Belmont, MA, 02478, USA.
(14)Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard; 
Cambridge, MA, 02142, USA.
(15)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University; New 
Haven, CT, 06520, USA.
(16)Program in Bioinformatics and Integrative Biology, University of 
Massachusetts Medical School; Worcester, MA, 01605, USA.
(17)CNS Data Coordination Group, Sage Bionetworks; Seattle, WA, 98109, USA.
(18)Program in Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Yale University; New 
Haven, CT, 06520, USA.
(19)Department of Computer Science, Yale University; New Haven, CT, 06520, USA.
(20)Department of Statistics and Data Science, Yale University; New Haven, CT, 
06520, USA.
(21)Lieber Institute for Brain Development; Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.
(22)Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine; Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.
(23)Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine; 
Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.
(24)Department of Genetic Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine; 
Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.
(25)Department of Mental Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public 
Health; Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.
(26)Department of Biostatistics, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public 
Health; Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.
(27)Neumora Therapeutics; Watertown, MA, 02472, USA.
(28)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine; 
Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.
(29)MRC Centre for Neuropsychiatric Genetics & Genomics, Division of 
Psychological Medicine & Clinical Neurosciences, Cardiff University School of 
Medicine; Cardiff, CF24 4HQ, UK.
(30)Department of Comparative Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine; New 
Haven, CT, 06520, USA.
(31)Department of Neuroscience, Yale University School of Medicine; New Haven, 
CT, 06520, USA.
(32)Program in Neurogenetics, Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of 
Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles; Los Angeles, CA, 90095, USA.
(33)Institute for Precision Health, University of California, Los Angeles; Los 
Angeles, CA, 90095, USA.
(34)Department of Statistics & Data Science, Carnegie Mellon University; 
Pittsburgh, PA, 15213, USA.
(35)Computational Biology Department, Carnegie Mellon University; Pittsburgh, 
PA, 15213, USA.
(36)Department of Medical Oncology, Division of Population Sciences, Dana-Farber 
Cancer Institute; Boston, MA, 02215, USA.
(37)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard; Cambridge, MA, 02142, USA.
(38)Harvard Medical School; Boston, MA, 02215, USA.
(39)Division of Genetics, Brigham and Women's Hospital; Boston, MA, 02215, USA.
(40)Department of Computational Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine, 
University of California, Los Angeles; Los Angeles, CA, 90095, USA.
(41)Department of Biostatistics, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill; 
Chapel Hill, NC, 27599, USA.
(42)Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, University of California, San 
Francisco; San Francisco, CA, 94158, USA.
(43)Chan Zuckerberg Biohub; San Francisco, CA, 94158, USA.
(44)Center for Medical Genetics & Hunan Key Laboratory of Medical Genetics, 
School of Life Sciences, Central South University; Changsha, Hunan, 410008, 
China.

Genomic regulatory elements active in the developing human brain are notably 
enriched in genetic risk for neuropsychiatric disorders, including autism 
spectrum disorder (ASD), schizophrenia, and bipolar disorder. However, 
prioritizing the specific risk genes and candidate molecular mechanisms 
underlying these genetic enrichments has been hindered by the lack of a single 
unified large-scale gene regulatory atlas of human brain development. Here, we 
uniformly process and systematically characterize gene, isoform, and splicing 
quantitative trait loci (xQTLs) in 672 fetal brain samples from unique subjects 
across multiple ancestral populations. We identify 15,752 genes harboring a 
significant xQTL and map 3,739 eQTLs to a specific cellular context. We observe 
a striking drop in gene expression and splicing heritability as the human brain 
develops. Isoform-level regulation, particularly in the second trimester, 
mediates the greatest proportion of heritability across multiple psychiatric 
GWAS, compared with eQTLs. Via colocalization and TWAS, we prioritize biological 
mechanisms for ~60% of GWAS loci across five neuropsychiatric disorders, nearly 
two-fold that observed in the adult brain. Finally, we build a comprehensive set 
of developmentally regulated gene and isoform co-expression networks capturing 
unique genetic enrichments across disorders. Together, this work provides a 
comprehensive view of genetic regulation across human brain development as well 
as the stage-and cell type-informed mechanistic underpinnings of 
neuropsychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1101/2023.03.03.23286706
PMCID: PMC10029021
PMID: 36945630

Conflict of interest statement: M.J.G. and D.H.G. receive grant funding from 
Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma America.


73. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2023 Dec 1;208(11):1196-1205. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.202303-0395OC.

Clonal Somatic Mutations in Chronic Lung Diseases Are Associated with Reduced 
Lung Function.

Yun JH(1)(2)(3), Khan MAW(4), Ghosh A(5), Hobbs BD(1)(2)(3), Castaldi PJ(1)(3), 
Hersh CP(1)(2)(3), Miller PG(3)(6), Cool CD(7), Sciurba F(8), Barwick L(9), 
Limper AH(10), Flaherty K(11), Criner GJ(12), Brown K(13), Wise R(14), Martinez 
F(15), Silverman EK(1)(3), DeMeo D(1)(3); NHLBI Trans-Omics for Precision 
Medicine (TOPMed) Consortium; Cho MH(1)(2)(3), Bick AG(4).

Author information:
(1)Channing Division of Network Medicine and.
(2)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Medicine, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.
(3)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(4)Division of Genetic Medicine, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University, 
Nashville, Tennessee.
(5)Pulmonary Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, Upstate Medical University, 
Syracuse, New York.
(6)Center for Cancer Research, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(7)Division of Pathology, Department of Medicine, University of Colorado, 
Aurora, Colorado.
(8)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(9)Emmes, Frederick, Maryland.
(10)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.
(11)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, University of Michigan 
Health System, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
(12)Thoracic Medicine and Surgery, Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple 
University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(13)Department of Medicine, National Jewish Health, Denver, Colorado.
(14)Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland; and.
(15)Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York.

Comment in
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2023 Dec 1;208(11):1150-1151.

Rationale: Constantly exposed to the external environment and mutagens such as 
tobacco smoke, human lungs have one of the highest somatic mutation rates among 
all human organs. However, the relationship of these mutations to lung disease 
and function is not known. Objectives: To identify the prevalence and 
significance of clonal somatic mutations in chronic lung diseases. Methods: We 
analyzed the clonal somatic mutations from 1,251 samples of normal and diseased 
noncancerous lung tissue RNA sequencing with paired whole-genome sequencing from 
the Lung Tissue Research Consortium. We examined the associations of somatic 
mutations with lung function, disease status, and computationally deconvoluted 
cell types in two of the most common diseases represented in our dataset, 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD; 29%) and idiopathic pulmonary 
fibrosis (IPF; 13%). Measurements and Main Results: Clonal somatic mutational 
burden was associated with reduced lung function in both COPD and IPF. We 
identified an increased prevalence of clonal somatic mutations in individuals 
with IPF compared with normal control subjects and individuals with COPD 
independent of age and smoking status. IPF clonal somatic mutations were 
enriched in disease-related and airway epithelial-expressed genes such as MUC5B 
in IPF. Patients who were MUC5B risk variant carriers had increased odds of 
developing somatic mutations of MUC5B that were explained by increased 
expression of MUC5B. Conclusions: Our identification of an increased prevalence 
of clonal somatic mutation in diseased lung that correlates with airway 
epithelial gene expression and disease severity highlights for the first time 
the role of somatic mutational processes in lung disease genetics.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.202303-0395OC
PMID: 37788444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Ann Transl Med. 2020 Jul;8(14):887. doi: 10.21037/atm-20-3127.

Successful treatment of secondary macrophage activation syndrome with emapalumab 
in a patient with newly diagnosed adult-onset Still's disease: case report and 
review of the literature.

Gabr JB(1), Liu E(1), Mian S(1), Pillittere J(1), Bonilla E(1), Banki K(2), Perl 
A(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Upstate Medical University, College of Medicine, 
Syracuse, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, State University of New York, College of Medicine, 
Syracuse, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Upstate Medical University, 
College of Medicine, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Upstate Medical University, 
College of Medicine, Syracuse, NY, USA.

Here, we present a 22-year-old female patient with adult-onset Still's disease 
(AOSD) who was newly diagnosed in the setting of secondary macrophage activation 
syndrome (MAS), a rare, life-threatening inflammatory disease with 50% mortality 
due to multi-organ failure. She met the diagnostic criteria of AOSD and MAS, 
while genetic testing excluded primary causes of MAS. She had high fevers, 
anemia, thrombocytopenia, splenomegaly, hematophagocytosis, and elevated serum 
ferritin (37,950 ng/mL) and CD25 levels (11,870 pg/mL), which remained 
unresponsive to corticosteroids and anakinra. Her serum interferon gamma (IFN-γ) 
levels were elevated (7 pg/mL). She was markedly responsive to IFN-γ blockade 
with emapalumab that eliminated her fevers and all MAS-associated laboratory 
abnormalities. This report provides initial evidence for therapeutic efficacy 
for IFN-γ blockade in AOSD and secondary MAS.

2020 Annals of Translational Medicine. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/atm-20-3127
PMCID: PMC7396773
PMID: 32793731

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
http://dx.doi.org/10.21037/atm-20-3127). The authors have no conflicts of 
interest to declare.


75. Lancet Respir Med. 2015 Jun;3(6):473-82. doi: 10.1016/S2213-2600(15)00140-X. 
Epub 2015 May 20.

Classification of usual interstitial pneumonia in patients with interstitial 
lung disease: assessment of a machine learning approach using high-dimensional 
transcriptional data.

Kim SY(1), Diggans J(1), Pankratz D(1), Huang J(1), Pagan M(1), Sindy N(1), Tom 
E(1), Anderson J(1), Choi Y(1), Lynch DA(2), Steele MP(3), Flaherty KR(4), Brown 
KK(2), Farah H(5), Bukstein MJ(5), Pardo A(6), Selman M(7), Wolters PJ(8), 
Nathan SD(9), Colby TV(10), Myers JL(4), Katzenstein AL(11), Raghu G(12), 
Kennedy GC(13).

Author information:
(1)Veracyte, South San Francisco, CA, USA.
(2)National Jewish Health, Denver, CO, USA.
(3)Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA.
(4)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(5)Hannibal Clinic, Hannibal, MO, USA.
(6)Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Ciudad Universitaria, Mexico.
(7)Instituto Nacional de Enfermedades Respiratorias, DF, Mexico.
(8)University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(9)Inova Fairfax Hospital, Falls Church, VA, USA.
(10)Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, AZ, USA.
(11)SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(12)University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA, USA.
(13)Veracyte, South San Francisco, CA, USA. Electronic address: 
giulia@veracyte.com.

Comment in
    Lancet Respir Med. 2015 Jun;3(6):423-4.

BACKGROUND: Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a progressive fibrotic lung disease 
that distorts pulmonary architecture, leading to hypoxia, respiratory failure, 
and death. Diagnosis is difficult because other interstitial lung diseases have 
similar radiological and histopathological characteristics. A usual interstitial 
pneumonia pattern is a hallmark of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and is 
essential for its diagnosis. We aimed to develop a molecular test that 
distinguishes usual interstitial pneumonia from other interstitial lung diseases 
in surgical lung biopsy samples. The eventual goal of this research is to 
develop a method to diagnose idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis without the patient 
having to undergo surgery.
METHODS: We collected surgical lung biopsy samples from patients with various 
interstitial lung diseases at 11 hospitals in North America. Pathology diagnoses 
were confirmed by an expert panel. We measured RNA expression levels for 33 297 
transcripts on microarrays in all samples. A classifier algorithm was trained on 
one set of samples and tested in a second set. We subjected a subset of samples 
to next-generation RNA sequencing (RNAseq) generating expression levels on 
55 097 transcripts, and assessed a classifier trained on RNAseq data by 
cross-validation.
FINDINGS: We took 125 surgical lung biopsies from 86 patients. 58 samples were 
identified by the expert panel as usual interstitial pneumonia, 23 as 
non-specific interstitial pneumonia, 16 as hypersensitivity pneumonitis, four as 
sarcoidosis, four as respiratory bronchiolitis, two as organising pneumonia, and 
18 as subtypes other than usual interstitial pneumonia. The microarray 
classifier was trained on 77 samples and was assessed in a test set of 48 
samples, for which it had a specificity of 92% (95% CI 81-100) and a sensitivity 
of 82% (64-95). Based on a subset of 36 samples, the RNAseq classifier had a 
specificity of 95% (84-100) and a sensitivity of 59% (35-82).
INTERPRETATION: Our results show that the development of a genomic signature 
that predicts usual interstitial pneumonia is feasible. These findings are an 
important first step towards the development of a molecular test that could be 
applied to bronchoscopy samples, thus avoiding surgery in the diagnosis of 
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
FUNDING: Veracyte.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2213-2600(15)00140-X
PMID: 26003389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Data Brief. 2020 Jun 21;31:105908. doi: 10.1016/j.dib.2020.105908. eCollection 
2020 Aug.

Complete bibliographic data, cluster assignments and combined citation network 
of emergency response operations research extant literature.

Minas JP(1), Simpson NC(2)(3), Tacheva ZY(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Business, Ithaca College, 953 Danby Rd, Ithaca NY, 14850, USA.
(2)Department of Operations Management and Strategy, School of Management, 
University at Buffalo (SUNY), 351 Jacobs Management Center, Buffalo, NY 
14260-4000, USA.
(3)Stephen Still Institute for Sustainable Transportation and Logistics, 
University at Buffalo (SUNY) USA.
(4)School of Information Studies, Syracuse University, 900 South Crouse Ave 
Syracuse, NY 13244 USA.

The Emergency Response Operations Management (EROM) Literature Sample is a 
collection of 644 papers winnowed from over 5,000 related articles through 
application of a binary classification tree, collecting the state-of-the-art in 
decision models of emergencies in progress. References are scraped from each of 
these 644 publications, to create a dataset describing a total of 14,821 papers 
linked by 23,175 citation relationships, the analysis of which is presented in, 
"Modeling Emergency Response Operations: A Theory Building Survey" in Computers 
and Operations Research[1]. Bibliographic research communities are identified 
within the data set by framing the task of network partitioning as a cluster 
ensemble problem from machine learning [2]. This data may be used in several 
ways, including as an extended reference section for [1], as all 644 papers 
studied could not be individually cited there. Other examples of potential reuse 
are further study of a particular research cluster, comparative study of the 
structural characteristics of this bibliographic network with literature in 
other fields, and as a test-bed for the further development of robust clustering 
algorithms.

© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.dib.2020.105908
PMCID: PMC7334296
PMID: 32642518

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships which have, or could be 
perceived to have, influenced the work reported in this article.


77. ESMO Open. 2023 Dec;8(6):102035. doi: 10.1016/j.esmoop.2023.102035. Epub 2023 
Nov 2.

Baseline mutational profiles of patients with carcinoma of unknown primary 
origin enrolled in the CUPISCO study.

Westphalen CB(1), Federer-Gsponer J(2), Pauli C(3), Karapetyan AR(2), Chalabi 
N(2), Durán-Pacheco G(2), Beringer A(2), Bochtler T(4), Cook N(5), Höglander 
E(2), Jin DX(6), Losa F(7), Mileshkin L(8), Moch H(3), Ross JS(9), Sokol ES(6), 
Tothill RW(10), Krämer A(11).

Author information:
(1)Comprehensive Cancer Center Munich & Department of Medicine III, Ludwig 
Maximilian University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(2)F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Basel.
(3)Department of Pathology and Molecular Pathology, University Hospital Zurich, 
Zürich, Switzerland.
(4)Clinical Cooperation Unit Molecular Hematology/Oncology, German Cancer 
Research Center (DKFZ) and University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg; Department of 
Medical Oncology, National Center for Tumor Diseases (NCT), Heidelberg, Germany.
(5)The University of Manchester and the Christie NHS Foundation Trust, 
Manchester, UK.
(6)Foundation Medicine, Inc., Cambridge, USA.
(7)Hospital de Sant Joan Despí-Moisès Broggi, ICO-Hospitalet, Barcelona, Spain.
(8)Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre and the Sir Peter MacCallum Department of 
Oncology, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia.
(9)Foundation Medicine, Inc., Cambridge, USA; SUNY Upstate Medical University, 
Syracuse, USA.
(10)Department of Clinical Pathology and Centre for Cancer Research, University 
of Melbourne, Victorian Comprehensive Cancer Centre, Melbourne, Australia.
(11)Clinical Cooperation Unit Molecular Hematology/Oncology, German Cancer 
Research Center (DKFZ) and University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg. Electronic 
address: a.kraemer@Dkfz-Heidelberg.de.

BACKGROUND: Patients with unfavorable carcinoma of unknown primary origin (CUP) 
have an extremely poor prognosis of ∼1 year or less, stressing the need for more 
tailored treatments, which are currently being tested in clinical trials. 
CUPISCO (NCT03498521) was a phase II randomized study of targeted therapy/cancer 
immunotherapy versus platinum-based chemotherapy in patients with previously 
untreated, unfavorable CUP, defined as per the European Society for Medical 
Oncology guidelines. We present a preliminary, descriptive molecular analysis of 
464 patients with stringently diagnosed, unfavorable CUP enrolled in the CUPISCO 
study.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Genomic profiling was carried out on formalin-fixed, 
paraffin-embedded tissue to detect genomic alterations and assess tumor 
mutational burden and microsatellite instability.
RESULTS: Overall, ∼32% of patients carried a potentially targetable genomic 
alteration, including PIK3CA, FGFR2, ERBB2, BRAFV600E, EGFR, MET, NTRK1, ROS1, 
and ALK. Using hierarchical clustering of co-mutational profiles, 10 clusters 
were identified with specific genomic alteration co-occurrences, with some 
mirroring defined tumor entities.
CONCLUSIONS: Results reveal the molecular heterogeneity of patients with 
unfavorable CUP and suggest that genomic profiling may be used as part of 
informed decision-making to identify the potential primary tumor and targeted 
treatment options. Whether stringently diagnosed patients with unfavorable CUP 
benefit from targeted therapies in a similar manner to those with matched known 
primaries will be a key learning from CUPISCO.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.esmoop.2023.102035
PMCID: PMC10774891
PMID: 37922692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure CBW reports honoraria from Bayer, 
Celgene, Ipsen, Servier, Taiho, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, has participated 
in advisory boards for Celgene, Shire/Baxalta, Rafael Pharmaceuticals, RedHill 
BioPharma, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, and has received travel/accommodation 
expenses from Bayer, Celgene, RedHill BioPharma, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, 
Servier, and Taiho. JFG is an employee of and has stocks/shares in F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. CP has received an institutional research grant from F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, works as a study pathologist for the CUPISCO trial, and 
has received travel coverage and remuneration for study-related work such as 
histopathology reviews for patients in screening and in molecular tumor boards, 
for the benefit of her employer. ARK, NCh, and GDP are employees of and hold 
stocks/shares in F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. AB was an employee of F. Hoffmann-La 
Roche Ltd. TB has received an institutional research grant from F. Hoffmann-La 
Roche Ltd, works as a study oncologist for the CUPISCO trial, and has received 
coverage for study-related travel and remuneration for study-related work in a 
molecular tumor board for the benefit of his employer. NCo has participated in 
an advisory board for RedX Pharmaceuticals and has received institutional 
research funding from AstraZeneca, Orion, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Taiho, GSK, 
Novartis, Starpharma, Bayer, Eisai, UCB, RedX Pharmaceuticals, Stemline 
Therapeutics, Boehringer Ingelheim, Merck, Avacta Pharmaceuticals, and Tarveda 
Therapeutics. EH is an employee of and holds stocks/shares in F. Hoffmann-La 
Roche Ltd. DXJ is an employee of Foundation Medicine, Inc. and holds 
stocks/shares in F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. FL has received institutional 
research funding from F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Amgen, and Merck, has received 
travel/accommodation expenses from F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and Merck, has 
participated in an advisory board for F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Amgen, Merck, 
Sanofi, and Servier, and has participated in a speaker bureau/expert testimony 
for F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and Sanofi. LM has received travel/accommodation 
expenses from F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and BeiGene. HM has received honoraria 
from or has participated in advisory boards for F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, 
Ventana, Definiens, Merck, BMS, Astellas, Johnson & Johnson, Bayer, Ipsen, and 
Amgen, has received travel/accommodation expenses from F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd 
and Definiens, and has received institutional research funding from F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. JSR has received honoraria from, holds stocks/shares in, 
and has a leadership role in Foundation Medicine, Inc. ESS is an employee of 
Foundation Medicine, Inc. and holds stocks/shares in F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. 
RWT has received honoraria from Merck Serono Australia. AK has received 
honoraria from F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Daiichi Sankyo, and AbbVie, honoraria 
to his institution from F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and Bayer, has a leadership 
role in F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, has received institutional research funding 
from Merck and Bayer, has received travel/accommodation expenses from F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Celgene, and Daiichi Sankyo, and has acted as an advisory 
consultant for Daiichi Sankyo, BMS, and AbbVie. All authors received research 
support (medical writing support) from F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.


78. Schizophr Res. 2014 Jan;152(1):117-23. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.11.015. Epub 
2013 Dec 8.

White matter abnormalities in 22q11.2 deletion syndrome: preliminary 
associations with the Nogo-66 receptor gene and symptoms of psychosis.

Perlstein MD(1), Chohan MR(1), Coman IL(1), Antshel KM(2), Fremont WP(1), Gnirke 
MH(1), Kikinis Z(3), Middleton FA(4), Radoeva PD(1), Shenton ME(5), Kates WR(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, State University of New 
York at Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, United States.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, State University of New 
York at Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, United States; Department of 
Psychology, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY, United States.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, United States.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, State University of New 
York at Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, United States; Department of 
Neuroscience and Physiology, State University of New York at Upstate Medical 
University, Syracuse, NY, United States.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, United States; Department of Radiology, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United States; Clinical 
Neuroscience Division, Laboratory of Neuroscience, Department of Psychiatry, VA 
Boston Healthcare System, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United States.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, State University of New 
York at Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, United States. Electronic 
address: katesw@upstate.edu.

BACKGROUND: This study utilized diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) to analyze white 
matter tractography in the anterior limb of the internal capsule (ALIC), fornix, 
and uncinate fasciculus (UF) of individuals with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome and 
controls. Aberrations in these tracts have been previously associated with 
schizophrenia. With up to 25% of individuals with 22q11.2DS developing 
schizophrenia in adulthood, we hypothesized reduction in structural integrity of 
these tracts, including an association with prodromal symptoms of psychosis. We 
further predicted an association between allelic variation in a functional 
polymorphism of the Nogo-66 receptor gene and 22q11.2DS white matter integrity.
METHODS: Tractography was conducted using fiber assignment by streamline 
tracking algorithm in DTI Studio. Subjects were genotyped for the rs701428 SNP 
of the Nogo-66 receptor gene, and assessed for presence of prodromal symptoms.
RESULTS: We found significant group differences between 22q11.2DS and controls 
in DTI metrics for all three tracts. DTI metrics of ALIC and UF were associated 
with prodromal symptoms in 22q11.2DS. Further, ALIC DTI metrics were associated 
with allelic variation of the rs701428 SNP of the Nogo-66 receptor gene in 
22q11.2DS.
CONCLUSIONS: Alterations in DTI metrics suggest white matter microstructural 
anomalies of the ALIC, fornix, and UF in 22q11.2DS. Structural differences in 
ALIC appear to be associated with the Nogo-66 receptor gene, which has been 
linked to myelin-mediated axonal growth inhibition. Moreover, the association 
between psychosis symptoms and ALIC and UF metrics suggests that the Nogo-66 
receptor gene may represent a susceptibility gene for psychosis through its 
disruption of white matter microstructure and myelin-associated axonal growth.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.11.015
PMCID: PMC3909835
PMID: 24321711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest The authors report no 
biomedical financial interests or potential conflicts of interest.


79. Psychiatry Res. 2023 Aug;326:115281. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2023.115281. Epub 
2023 May 30.

A pilot pharmacogenetic study of calcium channel blocker treatment of bipolar 
mania.

Li M(1), Yuan N(2), Nurnberger JI(3), Alliey-Rodriguez N(4), Zhou J(5), Duan 
F(6), Dai J(5), Chen Y(7), Lu J(1), Xie L(8), Liu F(8), Yang X(8), Tapon P(9), 
Gorrepati V(9), Liu X(10), Chen C(11), Liu C(12), Gershon ES(13).

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Genetics & Hunan Key Laboratory of Medical Genetics, 
School of Life Sciences, and Department of Psychiatry, The Second Xiangya 
Hospital, Central South University, Changsha, China.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Hunan Provincial Brain Hospital (The Second 
People's Hospital of Hunan Province), Changsha, Hunan, China. Electronic 
address: 214723726@qq.com.
(3)Departments of Psychiatry and Medical and Molecular Genetics, Stark 
Neurosciences Research Institute, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neuroscience, University of Chicago, 
Chicago, IL, USA; Department of Neuroscience, University of Texas Rio Grande 
Valley, Harlingen, TX, USA.
(5)Center for Medical Genetics & Hunan Key Laboratory of Medical Genetics, 
School of Life Sciences, and Department of Psychiatry, The Second Xiangya 
Hospital, Central South University, Changsha, China; State Key Laboratory of 
Genetic Engineering, Human Phenome Institute, and School of Life Sciences, Fudan 
University, Shanghai, China.
(6)Center for Medical Genetics & Hunan Key Laboratory of Medical Genetics, 
School of Life Sciences, and Department of Psychiatry, The Second Xiangya 
Hospital, Central South University, Changsha, China; College of Life Sciences, 
Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.
(7)Center for Medical Genetics & Hunan Key Laboratory of Medical Genetics, 
School of Life Sciences, and Department of Psychiatry, The Second Xiangya 
Hospital, Central South University, Changsha, China; Broad Institute of MIT and 
Harvard, Cambridge, MA 02141, USA.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, Hunan Provincial Brain Hospital (The Second 
People's Hospital of Hunan Province), Changsha, Hunan, China.
(9)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neuroscience, University of Chicago, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, Hunan Provincial Brain Hospital (The Second 
People's Hospital of Hunan Province), Changsha, Hunan, China. Electronic 
address: 707151907@qq.com.
(11)Center for Medical Genetics & Hunan Key Laboratory of Medical Genetics, 
School of Life Sciences, and Department of Psychiatry, The Second Xiangya 
Hospital, Central South University, Changsha, China. Electronic address: 
chenchao@sklmg.edu.cn.
(12)Center for Medical Genetics & Hunan Key Laboratory of Medical Genetics, 
School of Life Sciences, and Department of Psychiatry, The Second Xiangya 
Hospital, Central South University, Changsha, China; Department of Psychiatry, 
SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY 13210, USA. Electronic address: 
LiuCh@upstate.edu.
(13)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neuroscience, University of Chicago, 
Chicago, IL, USA. Electronic address: egershon@yoda.bsd.uchicago.edu.

Common genetic variants located in calcium channel genes are important markers 
of genetic susceptibility for bipolar disorder (BD). Previous clinical trials 
with Calcium Channel Blocker (CCB) medication improved mood stability for some 
BD patients. We hypothesize that manic patients who carried calcium channel risk 
variants would differentially benefit from treatment with CCBs. In this pilot 
study, 50 BD patients (Chinese: 39; US: 11) who were hospitalized for manic 
episodes were given add-on CCB treatment. We determined genotypes for each 
patient. There was a significant decrease in the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) 
after add-on medication treatment. Of note, two intronic variants of the Calcium 
Voltage-Gated Channel Subunit Alpha1 B (CACNA1B) were associated with treatment 
outcomes for manic patients: rs2739258 and rs2739260. BD rs2739258/rs2739260 
AG-allele carriers had a better treatment response with add-on CCB than those 
carrying the AA or GG genotypes by survival analysis. Although these findings 
did not pass multiple testing correction, this study suggests that 
single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) residing in calcium channel genes could 
be predictors for response to add-on CCB treatment of bipolar mania patients, 
and that calcium channel genes may be involved in treatment responses for BD.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2023.115281
PMID: 37270865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Financial or 
personal interests or beliefs that could affect the authors’ objectivity, or 
potential competing interests, do not exist.


80. Environ Manage. 2023 Feb;71(2):234-248. doi: 10.1007/s00267-022-01728-2. Epub 
2022 Oct 21.

Snapshots of Nature-Based Recreation Across Rural Landscapes: Insights from 
Geotagged Photographs in the Northeastern United States.

Goldspiel H(1), Barr B(2), Badding J(3), Kuehn D(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Wildlife, Fisheries, and Conservation Biology, University of 
Maine, Orono, ME, USA. harrison.goldspiel@maine.edu.
(2)Department of Environmental Biology, State University of New York College of 
Environmental Science and Forestry, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Forest and Natural Resources Management, State University of 
New York College of Environmental Science and Forestry, Syracuse, NY, USA.

Nature-based recreation is of increasing economic importance to rural 
communities transitioning away from traditional natural resource extraction. 
Rural areas are rich in cultural ecosystem services (CES) that function as 
essential public goods, providing benefits to livelihoods and fostering 
conservation of large landscapes. Geotagged photographs from social media 
platforms capture detailed information on public use of natural areas that can 
be useful for stakeholders interested in promoting resilient social-ecological 
systems, but applications of such "big data" are often limited in either 
spatiotemporal or thematic scope. We integrated multiple aspects of crowdsourced 
image data to better understand human-environment interactions, focusing on the 
Northern Forest, a culturally and ecologically significant region of the 
northeastern United States. Images for the region were mined from Flickr, a 
crowdsourcing image platform, from 2012 to 2017 and assigned themes via a neural 
network-cluster analysis pipeline while geographic drivers of nature-based 
visitor engagement were assessed with random forest models to predict use of CES 
across the Northern Forest. Daily and seasonal patterns in photography were 
broadly consistent throughout the region, whereas annual photography trends were 
more variable. Eleven core themes were identified in images, with 70% of 
photographs depicting activities related to CES. Visitor engagement with nature 
was greater near roads and shorelines, and at higher elevations, reflecting 
tensions between accessibility and aesthetics for recreation. Automated image 
classification tools can rapidly extract relevant information from crowdsourced 
photography for exploring human-environment interactions, but researchers should 
consider multiple spatial and temporal scales in CES assessments of large 
social-ecological systems.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00267-022-01728-2
PMID: 36271154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Biomedicines. 2023 Feb 10;11(2):519. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines11020519.

Molecular Targets in Salivary Gland Cancers: A Comprehensive Genomic Analysis of 
118 Mucoepidermoid Carcinoma Tumors.

Bou Zerdan M(1), Kumar PA(2), Zaccarini D(3), Ross J(4)(5), Huang R(3), 
Sivapiragasam A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, 
NY 13210, USA.
(2)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, SUNY Upstate Medical 
University, Syracuse, NY 13210, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY 13210, 
USA.
(4)Foundation Medicine, Inc., Morrisville, NC 27560, USA.
(5)Departments of Pathology and Urology, SUNY Upstate Medical University, 
Syracuse, NY 13210, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Salivary gland carcinomas (SGC) are histologically diverse cancers 
and next-generation sequencing (NGS) to identify key molecular targets is an 
important aspect in the management of advanced cases.
METHODS: DNA was extracted from paraffin embedded tissues of advanced SGC and 
comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) was carried out to evaluate for base 
substitutions, short insertions, deletions, copy number changes, gene fusions 
and rearrangements. Tumor mutation burden (TMB) was calculated on approximately 
1.25 Mb. Some 324 genes in the FoundationOne CDX panel were analyzed.
RESULTS: Mucoepidermoid carcinoma (MECa) mutations were assessed. CDKN2A and 
CDKN2B GA were common in mucoepidermoid carcinoma (MECa) (52.5 and 30.5%). 
PIK3CA was also common in MECa (16.9%). ERBB2 amplification/short variants 
(amp/SV) were found in MECa (5.9/0%). HRAS GA was common in MECa (14.4%) as 
well. Other targets, including BAP1, PTEN, and KRAS, were noted but had a low 
incidence. In terms of immunotherapy (IO)-predictive markers, TMB > 10 was more 
common in MECa (16.9%). PDL1 high was also seen in MECa (4.20%).
CONCLUSION: SGC are rare tumors with no FDA-approved treatment options. This 
large dataset reveals many opportunities for IO and targeted therapy 
contributing to the continuously increased precision in the selection of 
treatment for these patients.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines11020519
PMCID: PMC9953533
PMID: 36831055

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


82. BMJ Case Rep. 2023 Jun 22;16(6):e255605. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2023-255605.

Lamin A/C cardiomyopathy presenting as high-grade atrioventricular (AV) block, 
atrial fibrillation, heart failure and ventricular tachycardia in a 
single-family cluster.

Lubin SR(1), Paulraj S(2), Ahmed J(2).

Author information:
(1)SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, New York, USA lubins@upstate.edu.
(2)Department of Medicine, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, New York, 
USA.

Mutations in the lamin A/C (LMNA) gene have been associated with both cardiac 
and skeletal muscle abnormalities. Cardiac manifestations in LMNA cardiomyopathy 
have a variable age of onset and range from mild to life-threatening. We 
describe a case series illustrating manifestations of LMNA mutation in a single 
family with an extensive history of cardiac disease, including sudden cardiac 
death, and the implications for diagnosis and management. This discussion 
highlights potential presentations of LMNA mutations and the importance of 
genetic testing in patients with a family history of conduction abnormalities.

© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2023. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2023-255605
PMCID: PMC10314414
PMID: 37348923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


83. Am J Speech Lang Pathol. 2019 Aug 9;28(3):1029-1038. doi: 
10.1044/2019_AJSLP-18-0156. Epub 2019 Jul 12.

Starting to Talk at Age 10 Years: Lessons About the Acquisition of English 
Speech Sounds in a Rare Case of Severe Congenital But Remediated Motor Disease 
of Genetic Origin.

Peter B(1)(2), Vose C(1)(3), Bruce L(1), Ingram D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Speech and Hearing Science, Arizona State University, Tempe.
(2)Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders, Saint Louis University, 
MO.
(3)Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders, Syracuse University, NY.

Purpose This study was conducted to observe speech development in a child whose 
onset of oral communication was extremely delayed. In rare cases, children are 
born with physical limitations that temporarily interfere with speech sound 
production. Whether the development of speech sound production follows the same 
trajectory as that in typical children at younger ages is not well understood. 
Method We present a child who was wheelchair-bound and communicated nearly 
exclusively via augmentative and alternative communication devices due to severe 
congenital motor disease and generalized hypotonia. At age 10 years, her 
condition improved dramatically with medication after a mutation in a 
dopamine-related gene was discovered, and she switched entirely to oral 
communication. Observation of speech development was based on chart reviews, 
video recordings, and direct testing at age 15 years. Results At age 4 years, 
the participant's attempts at speech showed a small phoneme inventory consisting 
of early-acquired phonemes and large numbers of common phonological processes. 
Following the medical intervention at age 10 years, mastery of velars occurred 
after age 12 years and mastery of liquids was still incomplete at age 15 years. 
Conclusions Findings are consistent with general growth trends in speech sound 
acquisition that are independent of chronological age. Theoretical 
considerations regarding the role of motor control in the invariant order of 
speech sound acquisition are posited, specifically regarding articulatory 
building blocks. Clinical recommendations include interprofessional management 
of children with complex motor disease and referrals to genetics professionals 
in the care of such children.

DOI: 10.1044/2019_AJSLP-18-0156
PMID: 31298943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. J Investig Med High Impact Case Rep. 2023 Jan-Dec;11:23247096231218145. doi: 
10.1177/23247096231218145.

Transformed Testicular Teratoma to Embryonic-Type Neuroectodermal Tumor With 
Metastasis to Mediastinum.

Siegenthaler A(1), Niforatos S(1), Loon T(1), Brady A(1), Sandhu M(1), Kravtsov 
O(1), Akhtar K(1).

Author information:
(1)State University of New York Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, USA.

Testicular teratomas may present in both prepubertal and adult men; however, the 
prognosis differs greatly between these 2 populations. In children, teratomas 
(prepubertal type) most often occur before the age of 4, are generally seen in 
their pure form, and behave in a benign fashion. In adults (postpubertal type), 
teratomas are usually part of a mixed germ cell tumor, and they have the 
potential to be found at metastatic sites, especially following chemotherapy for 
non-teratomatous germ cell tumor. Analyses of metastases from germ cell tumors 
and teratomas from the same patient have demonstrated a high degree of 
concordance in the observed genetic abnormalities. In rare cases, testicular 
teratoma can transform into a malignant germ cell tumor. One such type of 
transformation is into a primitive neuroectodermal tumor. These tumors are 
malignant and often metastasize to the retroperitoneum but may also metastasize 
to other sites. A multimodal treatment approach is needed, including surgery and 
adjuvant chemotherapy. We describe a rare case of malignant transformation of a 
testicular teratoma into a primitive neuroectodermal tumor with metastasis to 
the mediastinum. The patient was treated with radical orchiectomy, 
retroperitoneal lymph node dissection, and adjuvant vincristine, adriamycin, and 
cyclofosfamide alternating with ifosfamide and etoposide (VAC/IE therapy).

DOI: 10.1177/23247096231218145
PMCID: PMC10725136
PMID: 38097381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


85. J Robot Surg. 2023 Dec;17(6):2995-3003. doi: 10.1007/s11701-023-01738-0. Epub 
2023 Oct 30.

Outcomes of salvage robot-assisted radical prostatectomy in patients who had 
primary focal versus whole-gland ablation: a multicentric study.

Bhat KRS(1)(2), Nathan A(3), Moschovas MC(4), Nathan S(3), Patel VR(4).

Author information:
(1)AdventHealth Orlando, Orlando, USA. seetharam_bhat2003@yahoo.co.in.
(2)SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, 13502, USA. 
seetharam_bhat2003@yahoo.co.in.
(3)University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(4)AdventHealth Orlando, Orlando, USA.

In the present study, we present comparative outcomes of radical prostatectomy 
after whole-gland therapy (wg-SRARP) and focal gland therapy (f-SRARP). The 
study assessed 339 patients who underwent salvage robot-assisted radical 
prostatectomy (SRARP); 145 patients who had primary focal therapy and 194 
patients who had primary whole-gland treatment. SRARP was performed in all cases 
using a standardized technique developed at respective institutes with the da 
Vinci Xi Surgical System. Our primary endpoint was the comparison of the 
functional and oncological outcomes between the groups. Cox proportional hazard 
was used to study the functional and oncological outcomes. The median total 
operative time for f-SRARP was 18 min higher than wg-RARP (p < 0.001). Higher 
rates of nerve-sparing were performed in f-SRARP (focal vs whole gland; 
bilateral-15.2% vs 9.3%; unilateral 49% vs 28.4%; p < 0.001). wg-SRARP had 
higher rates of ISUP 5 (26.3% vs 19.3%; p < 0.001) and deferred ISUP score due 
to altered pathology (14.8% vs 0.7; p < 0.001), while f-SRARP had higher rates 
of ISUP 4 (11.7% vs 10.7%; p < 0.001) and ≥ pT3a (64.8% vs 51.6%; p < 0.001). 
Positive margins were significantly higher with f-SRARP (26.2% vs 10.3%; 
p < 0.001). Functional outcomes were poor in both the groups. However, 
postoperative continence was higher and faster in patients who had f-SRARP 
compared to wg-SRARP (69% vs. 54.6%; p = 0.013). We could not identify 
statistically significant difference in postoperative potency recovery and 
biochemical recurrence. We present the largest multi-institutional analyses of 
f-SRARP and wg-SRARP. SRARP is challenging wherein patients have adverse 
pathological features and increased surgical complexity irrespective of the 
primary treatment. Focal therapy group had higher rates of nerve-sparing, 
however, with increased positive surgical margins. Both groups had poor 
functional outcomes regardless of nerve-sparing degree, indicating significant 
ipsilateral and contralateral damage to tissues surrounding the prostate during 
primary treatment. We believe that this analysis is crucial for counseling 
patients regarding expected outcomes before performing a salvage treatment 
following ablative therapy failure.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag London Ltd., 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11701-023-01738-0
PMID: 37903973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2023 Nov 24. doi: 10.1007/s10549-023-07179-5. Online 
ahead of print.

Prevalence of targetable genomic alterations in young women with advanced breast 
cancer: a cross-sectional study.

Blansky D(#)(1), Ansari N(#)(2), Gao L(2), Sokol ES(3), Sivakumar S(3), Huang 
RSP(3), Pelletier M(3), Levy M(3), Pavlick D(3), Danziger N(3), Ross JS(4), 
Lustberg M(2), Rozenblit M(2).

Author information:
(1)Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA. 
deanna.blansky@yale.edu.
(2)Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA.
(3)Foundation Medicine Inc., Cambridge, MA, USA.
(4)SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

PURPOSE: Approximately 5% of breast cancers each year are diagnosed in young 
women < 40 years who tend to have worse clinical outcomes. We compared genomic 
alterations using comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) of tumor tissue among 
very young women (< 30 years) and young women (30-39 years) compared to 
women ≥ 40 years at diagnosis.
METHODS: 2049 advanced breast cancer cases were submitted to Foundation Medicine 
within a 22-month window for CGP. Hybrid-capture based CGP was performed to 
evaluate all classes of genomic alterations. Tumor mutational burden was 
determined on at least 0.8 Mbp of sequenced DNA and microsatellite instability 
was determined on at least 95 loci. Immunocyte PD-L1 expression was determined 
by immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: Of the total cases, 28 (1.37%) were < 30 years, 159 (7.76%) were 30-39 
years, and 1862 (90.87%) were ≥ 40 at time of diagnosis. Breast tumors were less 
likely to be estrogen receptor positive in younger women (54% of < 30 years, 
p > 0.05; 60% of 30-39 years, p < 0.001; 69.4% of ≥ 40 years) and more likely to 
be triple negative (43%, p = 0.05; 33%, p = 0.05; 26.1% respectively). Young 
women had higher rates of BRCA1 mutations (17.9% <30 years, p < 0.001; 10.1% 
30-39 years, p < 0.001; 2.6% ≥40 years), but lower rates of CDH1 (7.1% <30 
years, p > 0.05; 5.0% 30-39 years, p < 0.001; 15.4% ≥40 years) and PIK3CA 
mutations (17.9% <30 years, p = 0.02; 17.6% 30-39 years, p < 0.001; 40.0% ≥40 
years).
CONCLUSION: Our findings contribute to the growing literature demonstrating 
unique genetic profiles among young women diagnosed with breast cancer, compared 
to older women.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-023-07179-5
PMID: 37999916


87. Sci Adv. 2023 Dec;9(48):eadi4386. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.adi4386. Epub 2023 Nov 29.

miRNA cargo in circulating vesicles from neurons is altered in individuals with 
schizophrenia and associated with severe disease.

Barnett MM(1)(2), Reay WR(1)(2), Geaghan MP(3), Kiltschewskij DJ(1)(2), Green 
MJ(4)(5), Weidenhofer J(1), Glatt SJ(6), Cairns MJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Biomedical Sciences and Pharmacy, Faculty of Health and Medicine, 
The University of Newcastle, Callaghan, NSW 2308, Australia.
(2)Precision Medicine Research Program, Hunter Medical Research Institute, 
Newcastle, NSW 2305, Australia.
(3)Kinghorn Centre for Clinical Genomics, Garvan Medical Research Institute, 
Darlinghurst, NSW 2010, Australia.
(4)Discipline of Psychiatry and Mental Health, School of Clinical Medicine, 
University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia.
(5)Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(6)Psychiatric Genetic Epidemiology and Neurobiology Laboratory (PsychGENe lab), 
Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, SUNY Upstate Medical 
University, Syracuse, NY, USA.

While RNA expression appears to be altered in several brain disorders, the 
constraints of postmortem analysis make it impractical for well-powered 
population studies and biomarker development. Given that the unique molecular 
composition of neurons are reflected in their extracellular vesicles (EVs), we 
hypothesized that the fractionation of neuron derived EVs provides an 
opportunity to specifically profile their encapsulated contents noninvasively 
from blood. To investigate this hypothesis, we determined miRNA expression in 
microtubule associated protein 1B (MAP1B)-enriched serum EVs derived from 
neurons from a large cohort of individuals with schizophrenia and nonpsychiatric 
comparison participants. We observed dysregulation of miRNA in schizophrenia 
subjects, in particular those with treatment-resistance and severe cognitive 
deficits. These data support the hypothesis that schizophrenia is associated 
with alterations in posttranscriptional regulation of synaptic gene expression 
and provides an example of the potential utility of tissue-specific EV analysis 
in brain disorders.

DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.adi4386
PMCID: PMC10686555
PMID: 38019909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Environ Monit Assess. 2015 Oct;187(10):641. doi: 10.1007/s10661-015-4847-1. Epub 
2015 Sep 24.

Accuracy assessment of land cover/land use classifiers in dry and humid areas of 
Iran.

Yousefi S(1), Khatami R(2), Mountrakis G(2), Mirzaee S(3), Pourghasemi HR(4), 
Tazeh M(5).

Author information:
(1)Watershed Science Department, Faculty of Natural Resources, Tarbiat Modares 
University (TMU), Mazandaran, Iran.
(2)Department of Environmental Resources Engineering, State University of New 
York College of Environmental Science and Forestry, One Forestry Drive, 
Syracuse, NY, 13210, USA.
(3)College of Natural Resources, Lorestan University, Lorestan, Iran.
(4)Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Engineering, College of 
Agriculture, Shiraz University, Shiraz, Iran. hamidreza.pourghasemi@yahoo.com.
(5)College of Natural Resources, Ardekan University, Ardekan, Iran.

Land cover/land use (LCLU) maps are essential inputs for environmental analysis. 
Remote sensing provides an opportunity to construct LCLU maps of large 
geographic areas in a timely fashion. Knowing the most accurate classification 
method to produce LCLU maps based on site characteristics is necessary for the 
environment managers. The aim of this research is to examine the performance of 
various classification algorithms for LCLU mapping in dry and humid climates 
(from June to August). Testing is performed in three case studies from each of 
the two climates in Iran. The reference dataset of each image was randomly 
selected from the entire images and was randomly divided into training and 
validation set. Training sets included 400 pixels, and validation sets included 
200 pixels of each LCLU. Results indicate that the support vector machine (SVM) 
and neural network methods can achieve higher overall accuracy (86.7 and 86.6%) 
than other examined algorithms, with a slight advantage for the SVM. Dry areas 
exhibit higher classification difficulty as man-made features often have 
overlapping spectral responses to soil. A further observation is that spatial 
segregation and lower mixture of LCLU classes can increase classification 
overall accuracy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10661-015-4847-1
PMID: 26403704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. R Soc Open Sci. 2023 Nov 8;10(11):230750. doi: 10.1098/rsos.230750. eCollection 
2023 Nov.

Accelerometer-based predictions of behaviour elucidate factors affecting the 
daily activity patterns of spotted hyenas.

Minasandra P(1)(2)(3)(4), Jensen FH(5)(6)(7), Gersick AS(8)(9), Holekamp 
KE(10)(11), Strauss ED(1)(2)(3), Strandburg-Peshkin A(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department for the Ecology of Animal Societies, Max Planck Institute of 
Animal Behavior, Konstanz, Germany.
(2)Biology Department, University of Konstanz, Konstanz, Germany.
(3)Centre for the Advanced Study of Collective Behaviour, University of 
Konstanz, Konstanz, Germany.
(4)International Max Planck Research School for Organismal Biology, Konstanz, 
Germany.
(5)Department of Ecoscience, Aarhus University, Roskilde, Denmark.
(6)Biology Department, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, MA, 
USA.
(7)Biology Department, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(8)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, 
Princeton, NJ, USA.
(9)Department of Computer Science, San Diego State University, San Diego, CA, 
USA.
(10)Department of Integrative Biology, Michigan State University, East Lansing, 
MI, USA.
(11)Program in Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior, Michigan State University, East 
Lansing, MI, USA.

Animal activity patterns are highly variable and influenced by internal and 
external factors, including social processes. Quantifying activity patterns in 
natural settings can be challenging, as it is difficult to monitor animals over 
long time periods. Here, we developed and validated a machine-learning-based 
classifier to identify behavioural states from accelerometer data of wild 
spotted hyenas (Crocuta crocuta), social carnivores that live in large 
fission-fusion societies. By combining this classifier with continuous 
collar-based accelerometer data from five hyenas, we generated a complete record 
of activity patterns over more than one month. We used these continuous 
behavioural sequences to investigate how past activity, individual 
idiosyncrasies, and social synchronization influence hyena activity patterns. We 
found that hyenas exhibit characteristic crepuscular-nocturnal daily activity 
patterns. Time spent active was independent of activity level on previous days, 
suggesting that hyenas do not show activity compensation. We also found limited 
evidence for an effect of individual identity on activity, and showed that pairs 
of hyenas who synchronized their activity patterns must have spent more time 
together. This study sheds light on the patterns and drivers of activity in 
spotted hyena societies, and also provides a useful tool for quantifying 
behavioural sequences from accelerometer data.

© 2023 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1098/rsos.230750
PMCID: PMC10645113
PMID: 38026018

Conflict of interest statement: We declare we have no competing interests.